PT	AU	AF	CA	TI	SO	SE	ED	LA	DT	CE	DP	SC	DE	ID	AB	C1	RP	EM	RI	OI	U1	U2	PU	PI	PA	WP	SN	BN	J9	JI	PY	PD	VL	IS	PN	SU	SI	BP	EP	PG	DI	GA	UT	PM	OA	HC	HP	DAJ	Roach, MCThompson, FRJones-Farrand, T	Roach, Melissa C.; Thompson, Frank R., III; Jones-Farrand, Todd		Effects of pine-oak woodland restoration on breeding bird densities in the Ozark-Ouachita Interior Highlands	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Woodland, Distance sampling, Canopy cover, Prescribed fire, Tree thinning, Early successional, Restoration, Hierarchical models	SAVANNA RESTORATION, FOREST MANAGEMENT, FIRE FREQUENCY, PONDEROSA PINE, HABITAT USE, MISSOURI, CONSERVATION, DISTURBANCE, VEGETATION, SELECTION	Restoration is underway to restore lost or degraded remnants of savanna and woodland in the Midwestern United States in the hopes of restoring floristic and wildlife diversity. Information is needed on the effects of pine savanna-woodland restoration on bird abundance to inform management decisions. We conducted point-count surveys for 19 bird species across the gradient of savanna, woodland, and forest in restored and non-restored areas throughout the Ozark-Ouachita Highlands in parts of Missouri, Arkansas, and Oklahoma during the 2013-2015 breeding seasons. We estimated densities of 16 species using distance sampling to account for detection probability, and we determined relationships of bird abundance with management and vegetation variables by evaluating support for a priori models. Densities of early-successional and generalist species were positively related, and interior-forest species negatively related, to restoration. Densities of Brown-headed Nuthatch (Sitta pusilla), Eastern Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus), Eastern Wood-Pewee (Contopus virens), Pine Warbler (Setophaga pinus), Prairie Warbler (Setophaga discolor), Red-headed Woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus), White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus), and Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens) were positively related to prescribed fire activity. Blue-winged Warbler (Vermivora cyanoptera), Kentucky Warbler (Geothlypis formosa), and Yellow-breasted Chat densities were positively related to tree thinning. Many species had higher densities in areas with less canopy cover, tree density, and forest cover. Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens), Black-and white Warbler (Mniotilta varia), Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla), Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), and Worm eating Warbler (Helmitheros vermivorum) were negatively related to one or more aspects of restoration treatment and generally preferred areas with greater tree density and canopy cover. Summer Tanagers (Piranga rubra) were abundant but density was not strongly related to management or vegetation variables. Restoration provided breeding habitat for disturbance-dependent species and woodland generalists, many of which are species of conservation concern, but canopy cover generally remained too great for species that require more open savanna.	[Roach, MC] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Thompson, FR] US Forest Serv, USDA, Northern Res Stn, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Jones-Farrand, T] Southeast Reg USFWS, Columbia, MO 65211 USA	Roach, MC (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	roach.mc1@gmail.com			1	1	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2019	APR	437					443	459	17		HO9GU	CCC:000461270600041					2019-04-10J	Roberts, CPDonovan, VMWonkka, CLPowell, LAAllen, CRAngeler, DGWedin, DATwidwell, D	Roberts, Caleb P.; Donovan, Victoria M.; Wonkka, Carissa L.; Powell, Larkin A.; Allen, Craig R.; Angeler, David G.; Wedin, David A.; Twidwell, Dirac		Fire legacies in eastern ponderosa pine forests	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	birds, burn severity, disturbance legacies, ecological memory, fire legacies, material legacies, ponderosa pine, stand structure	MIXED-SEVERITY WILDFIRE, BURN SEVERITY, ECOLOGICAL MEMORY, CONIFER FOREST, BLACK-HILLS, REGIMES, RESTORATION, DISTURBANCE, DYNAMICS, OREGON	Disturbance legacies structure communities and ecological memory, but due to increasing changes in disturbance regimes, it is becoming more difficult to characterize disturbance legacies or determine how long they persist. We sought to quantify the characteristics and persistence of material legacies (e.g., biotic residuals of disturbance) that arise from variation in fire severity in an eastern ponderosa pine forest in North America. We compared forest stand structure and understory woody plant and bird community composition and species richness across unburned, low-, moderate-, and high-severity burn patches in a 27-year-old mixed-severity wildfire that had received minimal post-fire management. We identified distinct tree densities (high: 14.3 +/- 7.4 trees per ha, moderate: 22.3 +/- 12.6, low: 135.3 +/- 57.1, unburned: 907.9 +/- 246.2) and coarse woody debris cover (high: 8.5 +/- 1.6% cover per 30m transect, moderate: 4.3 +/- 0.7, low: 2.3 +/- 0.6, unburned: 1.0 +/- 0.4) among burn severities. Understory woody plant communities differed between high-severity patches, moderate- and low-severity patches, and unburned patches (all p<0.05). Bird communities differed between high- and moderate-severity patches, low-severity patches, and unburned patches (all p<0.05). Bird species richness varied across burn severities: low-severity patches had the highest (5.29 +/- 1.44) and high-severity patches had the lowest (2.87 +/- 0.72). Understory woody plant richness was highest in unburned (5.93 +/- 1.10) and high-severity (5.07 +/- 1.17) patches, and it was lower in moderate- (3.43 +/- 1.17) and low-severity (3.43 +/- 1.06) patches. We show material fire legacies persisted decades after the mixed-severity wildfire in eastern ponderosa forest, fostering distinct structures, communities, and species in burned versus unburned patches and across fire severities. At a patch scale, eastern and western ponderosa system responses to mixed-severity fires were consistent.	[Roberts, CP; Donovan, VM; Wonkka, CL; Twidwell, D] Univ Nebraska, Dept Agron & Hort, Lincoln, NE 68588 USA; [Roberts, CP] Nebraska Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Sch Nat Resources, Lincoln, NE USA; [Powell, LA; Wedin, DA] Univ Nebraska, Sch Nat Resources, Lincoln, NE USA; [Allen, CR] Univ Nebraska, US Geol Survey, Nebraska Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Sch Nat Resources, Lincoln, NE USA; [Angeler, DG] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Aquat Sci & Assessment, Uppsala, Sweden	Roberts, CP (reprint author), Univ Nebraska, Dept Agron & Hort, Lincoln, NE 68588 USA.	caleb.powell.roberts@gmail.com			1	1	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2045-7758		ECOL EVOL	Ecol. Evol.	2019	FEB	9	4				1869	1879	11		HO7HZ	CCC:000461114900026	30847078	DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Nordberg, EJSchwarzkopf, L	Nordberg, Eric J.; Schwarzkopf, Lin		Reduced competition may allow generalist species to benefit from habitat homogenization	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	anthropogenically modified landscapes, competition, disturbance, generalist species, habitat selection, homogenization, livestock grazing, lizards	BIOTIC HOMOGENIZATION, HORNED LIZARDS, ABUNDANCE, DISTURBANCE, SPECIALIZATION, FRAGMENTATION, CONSERVATION, VERTEBRATES, VEGETATION, DIVERSITY	Complex environments support high biodiversity and diverse microhabitat availability, which may reduce the intensity of competition among species. Both natural and anthropogenic disturbances reduce the structural complexity of habitats, leading to homogenization. High abundances of common, generalist species in disturbed habitats may be driven by reduced competition from specialists in similar habitats. We quantified habitat availability for and utilization of three co-occurring arboreal geckos (Australian native house geckos [Gehyra dubia], northern velvet geckos [Oedura castelnaui] and eastern spiny-tailed geckos [Strophurus williamsi]) in four replicated grazing regimes in an experimental grazing trial in north-east Queensland, Australia. Native house geckos were most abundant in heavily grazed habitats, whereas the two other species rarely co-occurred (either with each other or with native house geckos). Geckos displayed resource partitioning of habitat features, such as tree species and structural characteristics. We found evidence of interspecific competition among gecko species, in which native house geckos shifted their habitat selection in the presence of velvet geckos. In the absence of other geckos, native house geckos preferred rough, peeling bark and dead trees, yet in the presence of velvet geckos, native house geckos shifted away from dead trees, and used more structurally complex trees, probably due to high niche overlap with velvet geckos. Native house geckos were more resistant to the negative effects of livestock grazing than either velvet or spiny-tailed geckos. In the absence of other species, native house geckos used a wider range of microhabitats. Synthesis and applications. Species assemblages are often the results of multiple or complex factors, including predation pressure, habitat availability or competitive interactions. The homogenizing effects on habitat structure caused by livestock grazing reduce diversity and suitability for microhabitat specialists. Reduced competition can therefore promote the abundance of microhabitat generalist species, such as Australian native house geckos, suggesting that livestock grazing leads to homogenization and simplification of habitat structure, which ultimately leads to changes in species composition through reduced competition. Understanding species' responses to disturbance, and more broadly, habitat complexity, is crucial for maintaining or increasing biological diversity in anthropogenically modified landscapes.	[Nordberg, EJ; Schwarzkopf, L] James Cook Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Townsville, Qld, Australia	Nordberg, EJ (reprint author), James Cook Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Townsville, Qld, Australia.	ericjnordberg@gmail.com	Nordberg, Eric/; Schwarzkopf, Lin/C-1242-2012	Nordberg, Eric/0000-0002-1333-622X; Schwarzkopf, Lin/0000-0002-1009-670X	7	7	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2019	FEB	56	2				305	318	14		HK0HW	CCC:000457580700005					2019-04-10J	Ahlering, MAJohnson, DHElliott, LH	Ahlering, Marissa A.; Johnson, Douglas H.; Elliott, Lisa H.		Land ownership and use influence grassland bird abundance	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	fire, grassland birds, grazing, private land, public land, restoration	LANDSCAPE FACTORS, PRESCRIBED FIRE, PASSERINE BIRDS, BREEDING BIRDS, GREAT-PLAINS, HABITAT, VEGETATION, PRAIRIE, ASSOCIATIONS, POPULATIONS	Populations of grassland songbirds continue to decline, and grasslands devoted to conservation are rare across the Great Plains. To gain the most value from grasslands for grassland birds, we must understand what types of management benefit these species. We evaluated the relative abundance of grassland birds on ownership types and the association of different land use activities with their abundance. We surveyed a wide range of grasslands (e.g., from idle to heavily managed, from remnant prairie to reconstructed) across western Minnesota and northwestern Iowa, USA, in 2013 and 2014. Sites surveyed covered a gradient of landscape context, management history (fire, grazing, reconstruction), and public and private ownership. We evaluated the influence of ownership and management history on the abundance of 12 species of grassland birds by comparing Akaike's Information Criterion values of linear models that included the variables of interest to models that included only local and landscape habitat factors. Ownership explained additional variation in bird abundance beyond local and landscape variables for 7 of the 12 species, and 5 species were more common on private lands. Fire or grazing history explained variation in bird abundance for 11 species, and 7 species had greater abundance on remnant prairie than on reconstructed grassland. For all but 1 species, ownership and management factors significantly improved models above a base model of local and landscape variables typically used to predict abundance. Our results suggest remnant prairie plays an important role for grassland birds, and that grazing could be a tool to increase abundance of some grassland bird species in the region. Furthermore, tracking management history of public lands in a consistent and accessible way could help improve landscape-based models for these species. (c) 2018 The Wildlife Society.	[Ahlering, MA] Nature Conservancy, 1101 W River Pkwy,Suite 200, Minneapolis, MN 55415 USA; [Johnson, DH; Elliott, LH] Univ Minnesota, Dept Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol, 2003 Upper Buford Circle,Suite 135, St Paul, MN 55108 USA	Ahlering, MA (reprint author), Nature Conservancy, 1101 W River Pkwy,Suite 200, Minneapolis, MN 55415 USA.	mahlering@tnc.org			10	10	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2019	FEB	83	2				343	355	13		HH1NM	CCC:000455486900011					2019-04-10J	Reise, JKukulka, FFlade, MWinter, S	Reise, Judith; Kukulka, Florian; Flade, Martin; Winter, Susanne		Characterising the richness and diversity of forest bird species using National Forest Inventory data in Germany	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences		LAND OWNERSHIP, TREE MICROHABITATS, SAPROXYLIC BEETLES, STAND STRUCTURE, DEAD-WOOD, BIODIVERSITY, INDICATORS, ABUNDANCE, FRAGMENTATION, COMMUNITIES	Data collected by forest inventories like the third National Forest Inventory (NFI-3, 2011-2012) in Germany was proposed to monitor forest biodiversity and evaluate existing forest management practices on a national scale. A data set was created from the NFI-3 data for analysis purposes which contained variables relevant to the habitat requirements of native forest bird species. Information on the distribution and abundance of 20 native forest bird species was taken from the Atlas of German Breeding Birds (2005-2009, 3003 grid cells). They form two important ecological groups: cavity-nesting and deciduous forest birds. For the first time, this data was combined with NFI-3 data and analysed using Random Forest models and partial dependence plots to determine which forest variables recorded by the NFI-3 were most closely related to forest bird species richness and diversity in temperate forests.It was shown that changes in forest bird species diversity and richness correlate with the NFI data but the different sampling methods of the NFI and bird species data also created methodological challenges which are discussed. The most important drivers of the richness and diversity of deciduous forest and cavity-nesting bird species are forest stand age and forest ownership. Deciduous forest and cavity-nesting birds show a preference for the way state, federal and municipal forests are managed over private forests. Private forests have significantly lower deadwood volumes and high proportions of coniferous trees, both of which are forest characteristics that lower the richness and diversity of bird species. Our findings show that efforts to protect forest birds should target managed forests older than 100 and 200 years and forests with total deadwood volumes > 46.3 m(3)ha. Protected areas also exhibited higher diversity and richness of forest birds which highlight their importance as suitable target areas for the protection of forest birds.	[Reise, J; Kukulka, F; Winter, S] Eberswalde Univ Sustainable Dev Appl Ecol & Zool, Fac Forest & Environm, Alfred Moller Str 1, D-16225 Eberswalde, Germany; [Flade, M] Regionalentwicklung GR, Landesamt Umwelt Abt Grossschutzgebiete, Reg Entwicklung GR, Tramper Chaussee 2, D-16225 Eberswalde, Germany; [Winter, S] WWF World Wide Fund Nat, Reinhardtstr 18, D-10117 Berlin, Germany	Reise, J (reprint author), Eberswalde Univ Sustainable Dev Appl Ecol & Zool, Fac Forest & Environm, Alfred Moller Str 1, D-16225 Eberswalde, Germany.	judith.reise@hnee.de			10	10	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2019	JAN	432					799	811	13		HG6CN	CCC:000455068700077					2019-04-10J	Ortiz, MJLMarcey, TLucash, MSHibbs, DShatford, JPAThompson, JR	Lopez Ortiz, Maria J.; Marcey, Terry; Lucash, Melissa S.; Hibbs, David; Shatford, Jeffrey P. A.; Thompson, Jonathan R.		Post-fire management affects species composition but not Douglas-fir regeneration in the Klamath Mountains	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Douglas-fir, Forest resilience, Klamath, Natural regeneration, Conifer, Fire ecology, Wildfire, Management	SEEDLING ESTABLISHMENT, CONIFER REGENERATION, FOREST-FIRE, WHITE FIR, CALIFORNIA, WILDFIRES, SEVERITY, PATTERNS, SHRUB, CONSEQUENCES	Ensuring adequate conifer regeneration after high severity wildfires is a common objective for ecologists and forest managers. In the Klamath region of Oregon and California, a global hotspot of botanical biodiversity, concerns over regeneration have led to post-fire management on many sites, which involves salvage logging followed by site preparation, conifer planting, and manual shrub release. To quantify the impacts of post-fire management, we sampled 62 field sites that burned at high severity nearly 20 years ago in the Klamath-Siskiyou Mountain bioregion, stratifying by management and aspect. We measured cover of shrubs and trees and density and frequency of trees and used Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling to compare community composition, plant community assemblage based on regenerative traits, and density of tree species between aspect and management. On average, shrub cover exceeded the cover of conifers, hardwoods or grasses, regardless of management history or aspect. The average number of species was lower and resprouting species were less abundant on south aspect sites; seed banking species were most abundant on north aspects. Post-fire management was associated with greater cover of seed banking and nitrogen-fixing species but it did not affect diversity. Management had no impact on Douglas-fir regeneration, the main species of concern in the region. Regeneration of ponderosa pine was higher on sites with post-fire management, but only on south slopes. The frequency of Douglas-fir was associated with aspect, while the frequency of ponderosa pine was associated with management. Overall, our study demonstrates the important role that aspect plays in determining the effectiveness of management after high severity wildfires. Indeed, the effect of aspect on site conditions often overwhelmed the ability of management to influence community composition (including different regenerative strategies), species diversity, and regeneration. Managed sites differed from unmanaged sites in several diverse ways with varied implications for longer-term forest development. Managed sites had taller dominant conifers, which suggests that post-fire management could hasten the period needed to achieve fire resistance. Managed sites were similar in plant community composition but had more homogeneous structure-e.g., managed sites had fewer snags, which are an important habitat feature for several bird species in the region. Finally, management was not associated with conifer regeneration success on north slopes, suggesting that interventions may not be needed uniformly across post-fire landscape. New policies of ecosystem-based management in the Klamath region should consider the important interactions between aspect and post-fire management, and tailor management practices based on specific objectives and landscape context.	[Ortiz, MJL] UCSA, Asuncion, Paraguay; [Marcey, T] Portland State Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Management, Portland, OR 97201 USA; [Lucash, MS] Portland State Univ, Dept Geog, Portland, OR 97201 USA; [Hibbs, D] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Shatford, JPA] Minist Forests Lands Nat Resource Operat & Rural, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Thompson, JR] Harvard Univ, Harvard Forest, Petersham, MA 01377 USA	Marcey, T (reprint author), Portland State Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Management, Portland, OR 97201 USA.	tmarcey88@gmail.com			13	13	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2019	JAN	432					1030	1040	11		HG6CN	CCC:000455068700100					2019-04-10J	Kitazawa, MYamaura, YSenzaki, MKawamura, KHanioka, MNakamura, F	Kitazawa, Munehiro; Yamaura, Yuichi; Senzaki, Masayuki; Kawamura, Kazuhiro; Hanioka, Masashi; Nakamura, Futoshi		An evaluation of five agricultural habitat types for openland birds: abandoned farmland can have comparative values to undisturbed wetland	ORNITHOLOGICAL SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	First arrival date, Food abundance, Hokkaido, Reproductive success, Stejneger's Stonechat	ARRIVAL DATE, ABUNDANCE, BIODIVERSITY, INTENSIFICATION, LANDSCAPE, CONSERVATION, COMMUNITIES, DIVERSITY, INDICATOR, CROPLANDS	Populations of birds inhabiting wetlands and grasslands are decreasing globally due to farmland expansion and subsequent agricultural intensification. In addition to conserving natural habitats, managing cultivated farmland and abandoned farmland are likely to be important future conservation measures; however, their relative suitability as avian habitat remains understudied. In this study, we evaluated five habitat types (wetland, pasture, cropland, abandoned farmland, and solar power plant) for openland birds in an agricultural landscape in central Hokkaido. northern Japan. Abandoned farmlands had bird species richness and total bird abundance values similar to those of wetlands. These values were generally higher in abandoned farmlands and wetlands than in croplands, pastures, and solar power plants. The per pair reproductive success of Stejneger's Stonechat Saxicola stejnegeri and the amount of its prey (arthropods) did not differ among the five habitat types. Tine species (Black-browed Reed Warbler Acrocephalus bistrigiceps, Common Reed Bunting Emberiza schoeniclus, and Japanese Bush Warbler Cettia diphone) arrived earlier in wetlands than in other habitat types. These results suggest that, although protecting the remaining wetlands is of prime importance for the conservation of openland birds in agricultural landscapes, valuing and managing abandoned farmlands would be a promising alternative.	[Kitazawa, M; Senzaki, M; Kawamura, K; Hanioka, M; Nakamura, F] Hokkaido Univ, Grad Sch Agr, Kita Ku, Nishi 9,Kita 9, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0608589, Japan; [Yamaura, Y] Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Dept Forest Vegetat, 1 Matsunosato, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058687, Japan; [Yamaura, Y] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Senzaki, M] Natl Inst Environm Studies, Ctr Environm Biol & Ecosyst Studies, 16-2 Onogawa, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058506, Japan	Kitazawa, M (reprint author), Hokkaido Univ, Grad Sch Agr, Kita Ku, Nishi 9,Kita 9, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0608589, Japan.	goldcrestxmunebirds@gmail.com	Yamaura, Yuichi/A-3638-2012	Yamaura, Yuichi/0000-0001-9355-4413	7	7	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC JAPAN, UNIV TOKYO, SCH AGR	TOKYO	YAYOI 1-1-1, TOKYO, 113-8657, JAPAN		1347-0558		ORNITHOL SCI	Ornithol. Sci.	2019	JAN	18	1				3	16	14		HK3QH	CCC:000457831700002					2019-04-10J	Reiley, BMStodola, KWBenson, TJ	Reiley, Bryan M.; Stodola, Kirk W.; Benson, Thomas J.		Are avian population targets achievable through programs that restore habitat on private-lands?	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	conservation action, conservation goals, conservation planning, early successional habitat, private-land programs	CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, MANAGEMENT, PRAIRIE, FIELDS	Agricultural intensification has negatively affected biodiversity throughout the world. In the United States, population declines of many early successional bird species have been linked with habitat loss due to agriculture. In light of this, recent efforts have attempted to prioritize conservation actions at continental scales. Importantly, these efforts have used existing data to estimate the global population size for declining species and set future population goals. Though these efforts consider broad scales for conservation efforts and provide population targets, they lack explicit plans to achieve established goals. One way to achieve these population goals is through the process of habitat restoration, such as voluntary private-land conservation programs that restore habitat in agricultural landscapes and are implemented at a sufficiently large scale to achieve population goals. Our goal was to understand how private-land conservation programs can be used to achieve population goals for declining species. To do this, we examined the population-level impacts of the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program, a program that has created more than 57,000 ha of restored habitat in Illinois, for four declining conservation priority species, the Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii bellii), Field Sparrow (Spizella pusilla), Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), and Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax trailli trailli). We surveyed 172 randomly chosen restored fields in 10 counties in central and west-central Illinois during the 2012-2015 breeding seasons. We found that current private-land conservation efforts in Illinois are probably effective in achieving state population goals for rare species with restricted habitat preferences such as the Bell's Vireo and may be close to achieving the goal for the Willow Flycatcher. However, more than 10 times the current amount of restored habitat (similar to 1% of land used for agriculture in Illinois) would be required to achieve the population goals set for all of our focal species. Our results suggest that achieving population goals for early successional bird species using land restored through private-land programs may be possible for some rare species, but the large amount of habitat needed for many species makes achieving these goals only possible with significant increases in private-land habitat.	[Reiley, BM; Benson, TJ] Univ Illinois, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, 1102 S Goodwin Ave, Urbana, IL 61802 USA; [Reiley, BM; Stodola, KW; Benson, TJ] Univ Illinois, Prairie Res Inst, Illinois Nat Hist Survey, 1816 S Oak St, Champaign, IL 61825 USA	Reiley, BM (reprint author), Univ Illinois, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, 1102 S Goodwin Ave, Urbana, IL 61802 USA.; Reiley, BM (reprint author), Univ Illinois, Prairie Res Inst, Illinois Nat Hist Survey, 1816 S Oak St, Champaign, IL 61825 USA.	bryan.reiley@gmail.com			1	1	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2019	JAN	10	1				2574	2574	12		HJ0NH	CCC:000456857400031		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Fish, ACMoorman, CESchillaci, JMDePerno, CS	Fish, Alexander C.; Moorman, Christopher E.; Schillaci, Jessica M.; DePerno, Christopher S.		Influence of military training on breeding ecology of Bachman's sparrow	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	ground disturbance, ground-nesting bird, habitat selection, longleaf pine, nest survival, Peucaea aestivalis, Pinus palustris, prescribed fire	NEST-SITE SELECTION, OFF-ROAD VEHICLES, GRASSLAND BIRDS, HABITAT USE, ANTHROPOGENIC DISTURBANCE, AMERICAN OYSTERCATCHERS, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, ENERGETIC COST, DUCK BEHAVIOR, SURVIVAL	Anthropogenic disturbance may cause birds to flush and relocate, abandon breeding sites, experience increased nest failure, or fledge fewer young. Ground-based military activities are of particular concern for ground-nesting birds because of the increased risk of nest destruction and trampling of vegetation. We investigated how different intensities of disturbance from ground-based military training affected reproductive ecology of Bachman's sparrow (Peucaea aestivalis) from 2014-2016, on Fort Bragg Military Installation, North Carolina, USA. We designated 2 training intensity regimes and monitored sparrows at 6 observation areas, 3 in high-intensity training areas (i.e., foot traffic every 1-3 days) and 3 in low-intensity training (i.e., foot traffic <1 per month) areas. We compared seasonal productivity metrics and daily nest survival between training intensities. Additionally, we compared male sparrow relative abundance and micro-habitat use between high- and low-intensity training areas. We monitored 106 male territories and located 110 nests opportunistically and by tracking telemetered female sparrows. We used fixed-radius point counts to estimate relative abundance in each observation area and measured vegetation composition and structure at a subset of 10 locations in each male territory. Seasonal productivity metrics, daily nest survival, relative abundance, and vegetation composition and structure at male locations did not differ between areas with high and low military training intensity. In 2015, 1 sparrow nest was trampled by military personnel, but >= 1 nestling force-fledged and the nest was considered successful. Bachman's sparrow nesting ecology was not affected by intensity of ground-based military training activity, likely because activity was sufficiently dispersed across the landscape, even in high-intensity training areas. We recommend ground-based training attempts to minimize ground vegetation destruction by dispersing large groups and traversing variable routes when in forested uplands. (c) 2018 The Wildlife Society.	[Fish, AC; Moorman, CE; DePerno, CS] North Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Raleigh, NC 27607 USA; [Schillaci, JM] Directorate Publ Works, Endangered Species Branch, Ft Bragg, NC 28310 USA	Fish, AC (reprint author), North Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Raleigh, NC 27607 USA.	alex.c.fish@gmail.com			18	18	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2019	JAN	83	1				72	79	8		HE8WS	CCC:000453729100010					2019-04-10J	Lehikoinen, PSantangeli, AJaatinen, KRajasarkka, ALehikoinen, A	Lehikoinen, Petteri; Santangeli, Andrea; Jaatinen, Kim; Rajasarkka, Ari; Lehikoinen, Aleksi		Protected areas act as a buffer against detrimental effects of climate change-Evidence from large-scale, long-term abundance data	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	conservation biology, distribution area, global warming, habitat management, land use changes, monitoring	NORTHERN-BOREAL BIRDS, LAND-USE, DENSITY SHIFTS, RANGE SHIFTS, CONSERVATION, POPULATIONS, IMPACTS, PERFORMANCE, DYNAMICS, MODELS	Climate change is driving species to shift their distributions toward high altitudes and latitudes, while habitat loss and fragmentation may hamper species ability to follow their climatic envelope. These two drivers of change may act in synergy, with particularly disastrous impacts on biodiversity. Protected areas, PAs, may thus represent crucial buffers against the compounded effects of climate change and habitat loss. However, large-scale studies assessing the performance of PAs as such buffers remain scarce and are largely based on species occurrence data. Conversely, abundance data have proven to be more reliable for addressing changes in wildlife populations under climate change. We evaluated changes in bird abundance from the 1970s-80s to the 2000s inside and outside PAs at the trailing range edge of 30 northern bird species and at the leading range edge of 70 southern species. Abundances of retracting northern species were higher and declined less inside PAs at their trailing range edge. The positive effect of PAs on bird abundances was particularly marked in northern species that rely strongly on PAs, that is, their density distribution is largely confined within PAs. These species were nearly absent outside PAs in the 2000s. The abundances of southern species were in general lower inside PAs and increased less from the 70s-80s to 2000s. Nonetheless, species with high reliance on PAs had much higher abundances inside than outside PAs in the 2000s. These results show that PAs are essential in mitigating the retraction of northern species, but also facilitate northward expansions of southern species highly reliant on PAs. Our study provides empirical evidence documenting the role of PAs in facilitating species to adjust to rapidly changing climatic conditions, thereby contributing to the mitigation of impending biodiversity loss. PAs may thus allow time for initiating wider conservation programs on currently unprotected land.	[Lehikoinen, P; Santangeli, A; Lehikoinen, A] Univ Helsinki, Helsinki Lab Ornithol, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Helsinki, Finland; [Lehikoinen, P] Lund Univ, Dept Biol, Lund, Sweden; [Jaatinen, K] Nat & Game Management Trust Finland, Degerby, Finland; [Rajasarkka, A] Natl Pk Finland, Metsahallitus, Oulu, Finland	Lehikoinen, P (reprint author), Univ Helsinki, Helsinki Lab Ornithol, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Helsinki, Finland.	petteri.lehikoinen@helsinki.fi		Lehikoinen, Petteri/0000-0002-2272-024X; Lehikoinen, Aleksi/0000-0002-1989-277X	31	31	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1354-1013		GLOBAL CHANGE BIOL	Glob. Change Biol.	2019	JAN	25	1				304	313	10		HE4WV	CCC:000453370700025	30393928				2019-04-10J	Gutierrez-Galan, ALopez Sanchez, AAlonso Gonzalez, C	Gutierrez-Galan, Alejandro; Lopez Sanchez, Aida; Alonso Gonzalez, Carlos		Foraging habitat requirements of European Turtle Dove Streptopelia turtur in a Mediterranean forest landscape	ACTA ORNITHOLOGICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Trans-Saharan migrants, forest management, granivorous birds, grazing management, habitat restoration, weed seeds, Echium plantagineum	BIRD DISTRIBUTION CHANGES, LAND-USE, SPECIES COMPOSITION, WATER AVAILABILITY, FARMLAND BIRDS, AGRICULTURAL ABANDONMENT, PLANT-COMMUNITIES, SCATTERED TREES, MOUNTAIN AREAS, DIVERSITY	Land use changes occurring in Europe in recent decades are generating important changes in the forest landscape characteristics and are having important effects on avian species richness and abundance. This is particularly important for some bird species of particular conservation concern that require heterogenous landscapes where breeding habitats are proximal to foraging habitats. Among these birds, the European Turtle Dove Streptopelia turtur is particularly important because of its marked population decline. In southern Europe, forest landscapes have been considered important breeding areas for Turtle Doves. We assessed the influence of the foraging area characteristics - distance to cereal crops and wild seed species abundance - and water availability on Turtle Dove breeding habitat suitability in a Mediterranean forest landscape in southern Spain. Forty-six point locations were surveyed during the spring of 2014 and 2015 on two nearby farms of a forest protected area. The average local abundance of Turtle Doves found at each point location was 1.25 +/- 1.31 males, and it was significantly higher at the point locations closest to cereal crops, as well as at nesting sites where the wild seed species included in its local diet were abundant, especially Echium plantagineum. Distance to water in the studied range (average distance 475 m) did not show a significant effect on Turtle Dove local abundance, although the high availability of water in the study area could have a positive influence on the overall Turtle Dove breeding habitat suitability. To benefit Turtle Dove breeding habitat suitability, cultivated areas with cereals/legumes near those forest areas where Turtle Doves reproduce should be promoted. Likewise, the promotion of those herbaceous species that are locally important in the Turtle Dove diet, available, for example, through specific grazing management, should be taken into account when nesting habitat restoration is designed in forest areas, regardless of whether the distances to food resources are long.	[Gutierrez-Galan, A; Lopez Sanchez, A; Alonso Gonzalez, C] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Sistemas & Recursos Nat, Ciudad Univ, E-28040 Madrid, Spain	Gutierrez-Galan, A (reprint author), Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Sistemas & Recursos Nat, Ciudad Univ, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.	gutierrez.galan.a@gmail.com			1	1	MUSEUM & INST ZOOLOGY	WARSAW	WILCZA 64, PL-00-679 WARSAW, POLAND		0001-6454		ACTA ORNITHOL	Acta Ornithol.	2018	DEC	53	2				143	154	12		HO3CX	CCC:000460796800004					2019-04-10J	Zielewska-Buttner, KHeurich, MMuller, JBraunisch, V	Zielewska-Buettner, Katarzyna; Heurich, Marco; Mueller, Joerg; Braunisch, Veronika		Remotely Sensed Single Tree Data Enable the Determination of Habitat Thresholds for the Three-Toed Woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus)	REMOTE SENSING			English	Article	Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences (PCES)	EARTH SCIENCES	Physical Sciences - Other Topics	deadwood, standing deadwood, dead tree, snags, three-toed woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus), habitat suitability model (HSM), habitat requirements, airborne laser scanning (ALS), CIR aerial imagery	TEMPERATE FOREST, SPECIES RICHNESS, LIDAR-DATA, DEAD WOOD, BIALOWIEZA FOREST, MODELING HABITAT, BIRD ASSEMBLAGES, SPRUCE FOREST, BEETLE, CLASSIFICATION	Forest biodiversity conservation requires precise, area-wide information on the abundance and distribution of key habitat structures at multiple spatial scales. We combined airborne laser scanning (ALS) data with color-infrared (CIR) aerial imagery for identifying individual tree characteristics and quantifying multi-scale habitat requirements using the example of the three-toed woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus) (TTW) in the Bavarian Forest National Park (Germany). This bird, a keystone species of boreal and mountainous forests, is highly reliant on bark beetles dwelling in dead or dying trees. While previous studies showed a positive relationship between the TTW presence and the amount of deadwood as a limiting resource, we hypothesized a unimodal response with a negative effect of very high deadwood amounts and tested for effects of substrate quality. Based on 104 woodpecker presence or absence locations, habitat selection was modelled at four spatial scales reflecting different woodpecker home range sizes. The abundance of standing dead trees was the most important predictor, with an increase in the probability of TTW occurrence up to a threshold of 44-50 dead trees per hectare, followed by a decrease in the probability of occurrence. A positive relationship with the deadwood crown size indicated the importance of fresh deadwood. Remote sensing data allowed both an area-wide prediction of species occurrence and the derivation of ecological threshold values for deadwood quality and quantity for more informed conservation management.	[Zielewska-Buttner, K; Braunisch, V] Forest Res Inst Baden Wurttemberg FVA, Dept Forest Nat Conservat, Wonnhaldestr 4, D-79100 Freiburg, Germany; [Heurich, M; Muller, J] Natl Pkverwaltung Bayer Wald, Freyunger Str 2, D-94481 Grafenau, Germany; [Heurich, M] Univ Freiburg, Chair Wildlife Ecol & Management, Tennenbacher Str 4, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany; [Muller, J] Univ Wurzburg, Bioctr, Dept Anim Ecol & Trop Biol, Field Stn Fabrikschleichach, Glashuttenstr 5, D-96181 Rauhenebrach, Germany; [Braunisch, V] Univ Bern, Inst Ecol & Evolut, Conservat Biol, Baltzerstr 6, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland	Zielewska-Buttner, K (reprint author), Forest Res Inst Baden Wurttemberg FVA, Dept Forest Nat Conservat, Wonnhaldestr 4, D-79100 Freiburg, Germany.	Katarzyna.Zielewska-Buettner@forst.bwl.de; Marco.Heurich@npv-bw.bayern.de; Joerg.Mueller@npv-bw.bayern.de; Veronika.Braunisch@forst.bwl.de	Heurich, Marco/O-4653-2014	Heurich, Marco/0000-0003-0051-2930	4	4	MDPI	BASEL	ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND	http://www.mdpi.com	2072-4292		REMOTE SENS-BASEL	Remote Sens.	2018	DEC	10	12				1972	1972	26		HH3RS	CCC:000455637600114		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Bretagnolle, VDenonfoux, LVillers, A	Bretagnolle, Vincent; Denonfoux, Leopold; Villers, Alexandre		Are farming and birds irreconcilable? A 21-year study of bustard nesting ecology in intensive agroecosystems	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	AES, Conservation, Ecological trap, Farmlands, Land sharing, Meadows, Nesting ecology	TETRAX-TETRAX, HABITAT MANAGEMENT, POPULATION DECLINE, GRASSLAND BIRDS, EXTINCTION RISK, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, LANDSCAPES, PROVISION, RECOVERY	Farmland landscapes in developed countries have undergone major habitat changes over the past 60 years leading to the decline of many species. Of these, the little bustard, a medium-sized, long-lived, ground nesting bird, has declined by 95% in France over the last 35 years. Here we present the results of a 21 year survey of the nesting ecology of this elusive species, analyzing 157 breeding attempts, the largest data set ever collated for this species. Females had a strong preference for meadows for breeding, yet this habitat only represented 14% overall habitat. Alfalfa alone accounted for 50% of nest locations. However, apart from vegetation type, females did not show any other pattern of habitat selection (vegetation height, nest position within field, field under agri-environmental contract-AES-). In addition, the laying period was extremely extended, spanning almost 3 months. We did not detect any strong effect of crop, date or whether the nesting field was in AES or not, on clutch size, egg size and egg-laying date. However, there were long-term changes in breeding phenology (females breed earlier than 20 years ago), and selection of vegetation between years and within years. Hatching success was very low (about half of the broods were destroyed by farm work), and both fecundity and productivity per female were found to be approximately one third of the values expected for a stable population. Overall, nesting females of Little Bustards select meadows in regard to their availability, but do not show any particular preference within meadows' vegetation structure or height. We show that in such system, meadows act as ecological traps, and furthermore, because females do not appear selective, it is impossible to manage meadows in order to limit this trap. We finally analyze whether the land-sharing AESs can conserve this species in intensive arable systems and conclude that the land sharing may not be sustainable. We discuss our results in light of the alternative of land sparing, and suggest that this is probably a better fit for the conservation of large-bodied bird species given their ecological constraints (large home ranges, presence of semi-natural landscape components and freedom from human interference).	[Bretagnolle, V; Denonfoux, L; Villers, A] CNRS, Ctr Etud Biol Chize, UMR 7372, F-79360 Beauvoir Sur Niort, France; [Bretagnolle, V; Denonfoux, L; Villers, A] Univ Rochelle, F-79360 Beauvoir Sur Niort, France; [Bretagnolle, V] CNRS, LTSER Zone Atelier Plaine & Val de Sevre, F-79360 Villers En Bois, France	Bretagnolle, V (reprint author), CNRS, Ctr Etud Biol Chize, UMR 7372, F-79360 Beauvoir Sur Niort, France.; Bretagnolle, V (reprint author), Univ Rochelle, F-79360 Beauvoir Sur Niort, France.	breta@cebc.cnrs.fr		Villers, Alexandre/0000-0003-3050-4106	11	11	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2018	DEC	228					27	35	9		HD8OA	CCC:000452815200004					2019-04-10J	Sommer, NRMoody, NMLantz, SMLeu, MKarubian, JSwaddle, JP	Sommer, Nathalie R.; Moody, Nicole M.; Lantz, Samantha M.; Leu, Matthias; Karubian, Jordan; Swaddle, John P.		Red-backed fairywrens adjust habitat use in response to dry season fires	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	fire, gamba grass, habitat use, home range, red-backed fairywren	BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, ANDROPOGON-GAYANUS, TROPICAL SAVANNAS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, GRASS INVASION, NATIONAL-PARK, FOREST, VEGETATION, WILDFIRE, IMPACTS	Fire disturbance in tropical savannas is integral to maintaining habitat heterogeneity and biodiversity, but its impact on avian species is highly variable. Savannas in northern Australia have recently been invaded by gamba grass (Andropogon gayanus), a perennial tussock grass that fuels late season fires at eight times the intensity of native vegetation. As gamba grass rapidly outcompetes native species and promotes more frequent and intense fires, it greatly decreases landscape heterogeneity and alters the effect of fire in tropical savannas. To investigate how a small passerine, the red-backed fairywren (Malurus melanocephalus), responds to fire disturbance and gamba grass cover, we studied their fine-scale habitat use throughout the dry season before and after a high intensity fire. We used two spatially distinct approaches, radio-telemetry and a transect-based population census, to quantify fairywren habitat use at the group and population level, respectively. Radio-telemetry and transect surveys revealed no direct mortality associated with the severe bushfire during the middle of the study season, suggesting fairywrens are resilient in the short-term to fire disturbance. Our results indicate that fairywrens are largely flexible in their habitat use - instead of relocating after fire, they re-centre their home range around the most photosynthetically productive habitats, dominated by saplings. While we found substantial variation in habitat use among social groups, red-backed fairywren groups generally avoided dense habitat areas dominated by mature gamba grass. We conclude that red-backed fairywrens are resilient to fire and flexible in their habitat use in the short-term; however, in the long-term, gamba grass may pose a threat to population viability. The importance of flexible behavioural strategies in tropical passerines will increase as fire regimes are exacerbated by invasive species and climate change.	[Sommer, NR; Swaddle, JP] Coll William & Mary, Inst Integrat Bird Behav Studies, Landrum Dr, Williamsburg, VA 23187 USA; [Moody, NM; Lantz, SM; Karubian, J] Tulane Univ, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, New Orleans, LA 70118 USA; [Leu, M] Coll William & Mary, Dept Biol, Williamsburg, VA 23185 USA	Swaddle, JP (reprint author), Coll William & Mary, Inst Integrat Bird Behav Studies, Landrum Dr, Williamsburg, VA 23187 USA.	jpswad@wm.edu		Sommer, Nathalie/0000-0002-1032-9980	9	9	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1442-9985		AUSTRAL ECOL	Austral Ecol.	2018	DEC	43	8				876	889	14		HA5RX	CCC:000450335900003					2019-04-10J	Walden, ELindborg, R	Walden, Emelie; Lindborg, Regina		Facing the future for grassland restoration - What about the farmers?	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agri-environmental scheme, Farmer, Restoration, Semi-natural grassland, Social aspects, Sweden	AGRI-ENVIRONMENTAL SCHEMES, PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, LAND-USE HISTORY, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, WOOD-PASTURES, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, SEMINATURAL GRASSLANDS, CALCAREOUS GRASSLANDS, WESTERN ESTONIA, MANAGEMENT	In line with the 2010 Aichi Convention for Biological Diversity, the European Union has a goal to restore 15% of degraded ecosystems and their services by the year 2020 (target 2, Europe 2020). This includes restoration of semi-natural grasslands (SNGs). Management of both intact and restored SNGs is dependent on people's willingness to manage them. Due to low profitability, management abandonment still occurs all over Europe, which highlights the need to raise farmers' and landowners' perspectives. In this study, we combined survey data and in-depth interviews with farmers/landowners managing previously restored SNGs, to understand how they perceive the restoration process, the outcome and future management. Survey and interview data were analysed in relation to biodiversity and Agri-environmental payments data from the restored sites. Almost all respondents considered the restoration successful and the re-inventoried restored SNGs also showed an increase in plant diversity. Nevertheless, 10% of the restored SNGs were abandoned again post-restoration and 40% of the respondents were unsure if they would continue the management in the future. Abandoned management may cause a negative trend in terms of decreased biological, cultural and aesthetic values, in the local community, as well as for the society in general. Most respondents explained a strong dependency on Agri-environmental payments, both as a restoration incentive and for post-restoration management. Also non-financial support from authorities in form of feedback and advice was requested, as well as support from the local community and society as a whole. Future management in a longer time perspective was strongly coupled to the farm economy, i.e. received Agri-environmental payments at farm-level and profit from selling agricultural products, and whether the farmers had successors. We conclude that both social and ecological factors, here farm economy, authority support and proper management, must be in place for long-term success of grassland restoration.	[Walden, E; Lindborg, R] Stockholm Univ, Dept Phys Geog, SE-10691 Stockholm, Sweden	Walden, E (reprint author), Stockholm Univ, Dept Phys Geog, SE-10691 Stockholm, Sweden.	emelie.walden@natgeo.su.se		Walden, Emelie/0000-0002-9180-2994	39	39	ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	LONDON	24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND	http://www.apnet.com	0301-4797		J ENVIRON MANAGE	J. Environ. Manage.	2018	DEC	227					305	312	8		GX2SM	CCC:000447570400031	30199726				2019-04-10J	Flanagan-Moodie, AKHolland, GJClarke, MFBennett, AF	Flanagan-Moodie, Anna K.; Holland, Greg J.; Clarke, Michael F.; Bennett, Andrew F.		Prescribed burning reduces the abundance of den sites for a hollow-using mammal in a dry forest ecosystem	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Tree hollow, Cavity, Antechinus flavipes, Fire, Box-ironbark, Australia	YELLOW-FOOTED ANTECHINUS, COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, FIRE MANAGEMENT, NESTING BIRDS, HABITAT, RESPONSES, FLAVIPES, TREES, LANDSCAPE, WILDFIRE	Prescribed burning is used in fire-prone environments worldwide to reduce fuel loads and the severity and spread of future wildfires. Forest habitat structures, such as large trees, dead trees and logs are highly flammable, yet also are essential for animal species that require hollows (cavities) as den sites for shelter and reproduction. We examined the effects of experimental prescribed burns on the use of den sites by a small marsupial, the yellow-footed antechinus Antechinus flavipes, in south-eastern Australia. Specifically, we radio-tracked individual A. flavipes to identify forest habitat structures preferred as den sites and recorded the fate of known den sites following patchy prescribed burns. We found that large living trees and dead trees were used as den sites disproportionately to their relative abundance in the forest. While all marked individuals of A. flavipes survived the immediate impacts of patchy prescribed burns, almost a third (16/52) of den sites identified before burning were lost, including 17% of trees (4/23) and 48% of logs (10/21). The vulnerability of den sites to prescribed burns can be attributed to the decay-dependent effect of fire on both trees and logs, whereby, the amount of damage from fire is related to the structure's pre-fire condition (i.e. whether dead or alive, amount of decay). Large trees and large logs are scarce in this dry forest ecosystem and their replacement is likely to take a century or more due to the slow growth rates of trees. The ecological impacts of prescribed burning on habitat structures used by A. flavipes and other hollow-using species can be moderated by: (1) carrying out patchy, rather than complete burns; (2) ensuring the inter-fire interval is sufficient to allow time for replenishment of resources; and (3) planning at a regional scale to maintain an appropriate spatial pattern of post-fire age-classes, including areas retained as long-unburned (e.g. > 50 years) in which resources such as deep litter, large logs and dead trees can accumulate.	[Flanagan-Moodie, AK] Deakin Univ, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia; [Holland, GJ; Clarke, MF; Bennett, AF] La Trobe Univ, Dept Ecol Environm & Evolut, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Holland, GJ; Clarke, MF; Bennett, AF] La Trobe Univ, Res Ctr Future Landscapes, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Bennett, AF] Arthur Rylah Inst Environm Res, 123 Brown St, Heidelberg, Vic 3081, Australia	Flanagan-Moodie, AK (reprint author), Deakin Univ, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia.	annakmoodie@gmail.com; G.Holland@latrobe.edu.au; M.Clarke@latrobe.edu.au; A.Bennett@latrobe.edu.au			13	13	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2018	DEC	429					233	243	11		GW6VX	CCC:000447103700024					2019-04-10J	Kozak, DMikolas, MSvitok, MBace, RPaillet, YLarrieu, LNagel, TABegovic, KCada, VDiku, AFrankovic, MJanda, PKameniar, OKeren, SKjucukov, PLabusova, JLangbehn, TMalek, JMikac, SMorrissey, RCNovakova, MHSchurrman, JSSvobodov, KSynek, MTeodosiu, MToromani, ETrotsiuk, VVitkova, LSvoboda, M	Kozak, Daniel; Mikolas, Martin; Svitok, Marek; Bace, Radek; Paillet, Yoan; Larrieu, Laurent; Nagel, Thomas A.; Begovic, Kresimir; Cada, Vojtech; Diku, Abdulla; Frankovic, Michal; Janda, Pavel; Kameniar, Ondrej; Keren, Srdan; Kjucukov, Peter; Labusova, Jana; Langbehn, Thomas; Malek, Jakub; Mikac, Stjepan; Morrissey, Robert C.; Novakova, Marketa H.; Schurrman, Jonathan S.; Svobodov, Kristyna; Synek, Michal; Teodosiu, Marius; Toromani, Elvin; Trotsiuk, Volodymyr; Vitkova, Lucie; Svoboda, Miroslav		Profile of tree-related microhabitats in European primary beech-dominated forests	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biodiversity indicators, Old-growth, Mountain beech forest, TreMs, Snags, Habitat tree	FIR FORESTS, OLD-GROWTH, STRUCTURAL COMPLEXITY, BIODIVERSITY, MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION, TEMPERATE, INDICATORS, WOODPECKER, DIVERSITY	Tree-related microhabitats (TreMs) are important features for the conservation of biodiversity in forest ecosystems. Although other structural indicators of forest biodiversity have been extensively studied in recent decades, TreMs have often been overlooked, either due to the absence of a consensual definition or a lack of knowledge. Despite the increased number of TreM studies in the last decade, the role of drivers of TreM profile in primary forests and across different geographical regions is still unknown. To evaluate the main drivers of TreM density and diversity, we conducted the first large-scale study of TreMs across European primary forests. We established 146 plots in eight primary forests dominated by European beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) in the Carpathian and Dinaric mountain ranges. Generalized linear mixed effect models were used to test the effect of local plot characteristics and spatial variability on the density and diversity (alpha, beta, and gamma) of TreMs. Total TreM density and diversity were significantly positively related with tree species richness and the proportion of snags. Root mean square tree diameters were significantly related to alpha and gamma diversity of TreMs. Both regions reached similarly high values of total TreM densities and total TreM densities and diversity were not significantly different between the two regions; however, we observed between the two regions significant differences in the densities of two TreM groups, conks of fungi and epiphytes. The density and diversity of TreMs were very high in beech-dominated mountain primary forests, but their occurrence and diversity was highly variable within the landscapes over relatively short spatial gradients (plot and stand levels). Understanding these profile provides a benchmark for further comparisons, such as with young forest reserves, or for improving forest management practices that promote biodiversity.	[Kozak, D; Mikolas, M; Bace, R; Nagel, TA; Begovic, K; Cada, V; Frankovic, M; Janda, P; Kameniar, O; Kjucukov, P; Labusova, J; Langbehn, T; Malek, J; Morrissey, RC; Novakova, MH; Schurrman, JS; Svobodov, K; Synek, M; Trotsiuk, V; Vitkova, L; Svoboda, M] Czech Univ Life Sci Prague, Fac Forestry & Wood Sci, Kamycka 129, Prague 16521 6, Czech Republic; [Mikolas, M] PRALES, Odtrnovie 563, Rosina 01322, Slovakia; [Svitok, M] Tech Univ Zvolen, Fac Ecol & Environm Sci, Dept Biol & Gen Ecol, Masaryka 24, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia; [Svitok, M] Univ South Bohemia, Fac Sci, Dept Ecosyst Biol, Branisovska 1760, Ceske Budejovice 37005, Czech Republic; [Paillet, Y] Irstea, UR EFNO, F-45290 Domaine Des Borres, Nogent Sur Vern, France; [Larrieu, L] INRA, DYNAFOR UMR1201, Chemin Borde Rouge,CS 52627, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France; [Larrieu, L] CRPFOcc, 7 Chemin Lacade, F-31320 Auzeville Tolosane, France; [Nagel, TA] Univ Ljubljana, Biotech Fac, Dept Forestry & Renewable Forest Resources, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Diku, A] PSEDA ILIRIA Org, Tirana 1000, Albania; [Keren, S] Agr Univ Krakow, Fac Forestry, Dept Biometry & Forest Product, Al 29 Listopada 46, PL-31425 Krakow, Poland; [Mikac, S] Univ Zagreb, Forestry Fac, Dept Forest Ecol & Silviculture, Svetosimunska 25, Zagreb 10002, Croatia; [Teodosiu, M] Marin Dracea Natl Res Dev Inst Forestry, Stn Campulung Moldovenesc, Calea Bucovinei 73b, Campulung Moldovenesc 725100, Suceava, Romania; [Teodosiu, M] Stefan Cel Mare Univ Suceava, Univ 13, Suceava 720229, Romania; [Toromani, E] Agr Univ Tirana, Fac Forestry Sci, Koder Kamez 1029, Albania; [Trotsiuk, V] Swiss Fed Inst Forest Snow & Landscape Res WSL, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland; [Trotsiuk, V] SwissForestLab, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland; [Trotsiuk, V] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Agr Sci, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland	Kozak, D (reprint author), Czech Univ Life Sci Prague, Fac Forestry & Wood Sci, Kamycka 129, Prague 16521 6, Czech Republic.	kozakd@fld.czu.cz; laurent.larrieu@inra.fr	Svoboda, Miroslav/E-6860-2010; Janda, Pavel/F-1190-2017; Svitok, Marek/A-4843-2013; Keren, Srdan/F-4974-2017; Labusova, Jana/G-8798-2019	Svoboda, Miroslav/0000-0003-4050-3422; Janda, Pavel/0000-0003-4732-6908; Svitok, Marek/0000-0003-2710-8102; Keren, Srdan/0000-0001-6589-1295; Labusova, Jana/0000-0002-5603-4758	23	23	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2018	DEC	429					363	374	12		GW6VX	CCC:000447103700037					2019-04-10J	Steinert, MMoe, SRSydenham, MAKEldegard, K	Steinert, Mari; Moe, Stein R.; Sydenham, Markus A. K.; Eldegard, Katrine		Different cutting regimes improve species and functional diversity of insect-pollinated plants in power-line clearings	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	boreal forests, conservation, ecosystem functions, ecosystem services, effect traits, land use, management, plant communities	CONSERVATION VALUE, WILD BEES, COMMUNITIES, TRAITS, MANAGEMENT, FRAMEWORK, RESPONSES, HABITAT, BIODIVERSITY, GRASSLAND	To mitigate biodiversity loss, it is essential to understand how areas altered by human land use can act as alternative habitats for functional groups of species, which are in decline. In forested landscapes, power-line clearings can be valuable habitats for early successional plant species, which in turn provide important food resources for pollinating insects. However, we know little about how management practices affect plant diversity, or how changes in species diversity translate into the functional diversity of floral resources. We conducted an experiment at 19 sites in power-line clearings across southeast Norway where the woody vegetation was (1) cut and left to decay, (2) cut and removed, or (3) uncut. We assessed the effects of treatments on species diversity (richness, evenness, diversity) and functional diversity (functional evenness, functional dispersion) of understory plant communities of insect-pollinated plants. We also investigated the influence of environmental conditions within the power-line clearings, the surrounding landscape, and climatic factors on species and functional diversity. We found that the cut and cut-remove treatments were effective in increasing biological diversity of insect-pollinated plants. The species and functional diversity showed contrasting responses to treatments, and the treatment effects depended on the environmental context. This shows that ecosystem functioning is not necessarily predictable from the ecological processes that drive species composition. The treatment effects on species diversity were partly explained by the stress-gradient hypothesis; species richness was higher in the cleared plots in areas of low environmental stress from precipitation and elevation. In contrast, the treatment effects on functional diversity were positively influenced by productivity, stem density, temperature, available source habitats, elevation, and canopy density. Functional diversity, based on effect traits, should be emphasized when the aim is to maintain a broad range of pollination functions and services in power-line clearings. This study shows that inclusion of power-line clearings in conservation plans can mitigate biodiversity decline in forested landscapes. We recommend the cut-remove treatment in productive areas with available source habitats and high stem density. In low productive areas, with high stem density and high temperatures, the standard cut treatment is sufficient, but a higher cutting frequency is recommended.	[Steinert, M; Moe, SR; Sydenham, MAK; Eldegard, K] Norwegian Univ Life Sci, Fac Environm Sci & Nat Resource Management, N-1432 As, Norway	Steinert, M (reprint author), Norwegian Univ Life Sci, Fac Environm Sci & Nat Resource Management, N-1432 As, Norway.	mari.steinert@nmbu.no			1	1	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2018	NOV	9	11				2509	2509	18		HD6DA	CCC:000452621900021		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Rolek, BWHarrison, DJLoftin, CSWood, PB	Rolek, Brian W.; Harrison, Daniel J.; Loftin, Cynthia S.; Wood, Petra B.		Regenerating clearcuts combined with postharvest forestry treatments promote habitat for breeding and post-breeding spruce-fir avian assemblages in the Atlantic Northern Forest	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Acadian forest, Avian abundance, Birds, Clearcut, Forest management, Forestry, Fragmentation, Northern New England, Spruce-fir, Richness	BIRD SPECIES RICHNESS, NEW-HAMPSHIRE, TIMBER MANAGEMENT, STAND STRUCTURE, DISTURBANCE, DIVERSITY, ABUNDANCE, POPULATION, OCCUPANCY, DENSITY	The quantity of spruce-fir forest and some conifer-associated breeding bird abundances in the Atlantic Northern Forest have declined in recent decades emphasizing the need to better understand avian responses to forest management and to identify options that proactively conserve habitat for birds during the breeding and post-breeding period. We conducted avian point counts and vegetation surveys on publicly and privately-owned lands with known management histories to assess relationships between avian assemblages in harvest and post-harvest treatments that could provide habitat for passerine birds associated with the spruce-fir forest type. We sampled regenerating conifer-dominated stands 5-41 years-since-harvest (YSH) in three harvest treatments (selection, irregular first-stage shelterwood, and clearcuts) and three postharvest treatments including regenerating clearcuts treated with aerially applied herbicide (e.g., glyphosate), precommercial thinning (PCT), both herbicide and PCT, and mature stands (>= 48 YSH). Spruce-fir obligate and associate birds were more abundant in stands with greater spruce-fir tree composition (>= 70% and >= 60%, respectively). Avian richness of spruce-fir obligates, associates, and species of concern was greater in clearcuts and clearcuts with post-harvest treatments. Vegetative features associated with greater richness and abundance of spruce-fir birds, such as greater spruce-fir composition and smaller tree diameter at breast height, were prominent in regenerating clearcuts and post-harvest treatments and suggested that these management practices promote local abundances and richness of spruce-fir birds. Richness and abundances of spruce-fir birds were least in selection, shelterwood, and mature stands, and vegetative features associated with greater richness and abundance of spruce-fir birds were diminished in these stands. Forestry trends in Maine indicate that the extent of the clearcut suite of treatments has decreased on the landscape while selection and shelterwood harvests have increased. Thus, changes in incentives for managers to apply even-aged management coupled with postharvest applications of herbicides or precommercial thinning might mitigate further declines in habitat for spruce-fir passerines assemblages. A greater ratio of clearcuts with postharvest treatments 11-40 YSH compared to other treatments (mature forest >= 48 YSH, selection and shelterwood 5-41 YSH) would maintain diverse spruce-fir bird communities on the landscape. Use of clearcuts with post-harvest treatments in the hemiboreal forests of northern New England, southern Quebec, and Maritime Provinces of eastern Canada may enhance habitat for breeding and post-breeding spruce-fir birds, especially where the quantity of conifer forests are declining and residual patches of conifers are increasingly fragmented.	[Rolek, BW; Harrison, DJ] Univ Maine, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Conservat Biol, Orono, ME USA; [Loftin, CS] US Geol Survey, Maine Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Orono, ME USA; [Wood, PB] West Virginia Univ, US Geol Survey, West Virginia Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Morgantown, WV USA	Rolek, BW (reprint author), 5755 Nutting Hall Rm 210, Orono, ME 04469 USA.	brianrolek@gmail.com			18	27	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2018	NOV	427					392	413	22		GP3TH	CCC:000440775600043					2019-04-10J	Mentil, LBattisti, CCarpaneto, GM	Mentil, Lorenzo; Battisti, Corrado; Carpaneto, Giuseppe Maria		The older the richer: significant increase in breeding bird diversity along an age gradient of different coppiced woods	WEB ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		FOREST MANAGEMENT, SPECIES RICHNESS, LANDSCAPE CONTEXT, HARDWOOD FORESTS, GRASSLAND BIRDS, EDGE AVOIDANCE, FRAGMENT SIZE, PINE FORESTS, HABITAT, BIODIVERSITY	Forest structural complexity could be a good predictor of overall species diversity. Since tree harvesting has a negative effect on forest structure, it is important to analyse the effects of this disturbance on sensitive groups, as forest birds. In this study, we aimed to shed light on this aspect by analysing a set of univariate metrics in bird communities breeding in three coppiced forest habitats (coppiced of chestnut, coppiced of Turkey oak and high forest of beech) along a gradient in age classes. We hypothesised that, with increasing forest age, (i) breeding bird communities will progressively increase in diversity and, (ii) due to higher habitat heterogeneity due to coppicing, a higher species turnover in the first age classes could appear. In each forest habitat, all the metrics significantly increased, from recently coppiced to more mature forests, due to progressively higher availability of resources and niches along the gradient. When comparing paired forest habitats, abundance and richness were significantly different only in the two oldest age classes, highlighting that responses to different tree composition were more marked in the mature phase. In all forest habitats, species turnover (beta(w) diversity) decreased progressively along the age gradient and was highest in the youngest age classes where many vegetation layers were present. Due to different coppice management practices, growth regime and consequent habitat heterogeneity, chestnuts showed a different pattern when compared to other forest habitats, with an increase in species turnover (beta(w) diversity) at intermediate level. With increasing age of the forests, all the diversity metrics increased and species turnover decreased, highlighting the role of older forests as strategic habitats for highly structured bird communities.	[Mentil, L; Carpaneto, GM] Roma Tre Univ, Dept Sci, Viale G Marconi 446, I-00146 Rome, Italy; [Battisti, C] Citta Metropolitana Roma, Environm Serv, Torre Flavia LTER Long Term Ecol Res Stn, Via Tiburtina 691, I-00159 Rome, Italy	Battisti, C (reprint author), Citta Metropolitana Roma, Environm Serv, Torre Flavia LTER Long Term Ecol Res Stn, Via Tiburtina 691, I-00159 Rome, Italy.	c.battisti@cittametropolitanaroma.gov.it			9	9	COPERNICUS GESELLSCHAFT MBH	GOTTINGEN	BAHNHOFSALLEE 1E, GOTTINGEN, 37081, GERMANY	http://www.copernicus.org	2193-3081		WEB ECOL	Web Ecol.	2018	OCT	18	2				143	151	9		GV4RH	CCC:000446087400001		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Irving, GJRound, PDSavini, TLynam, AJGale, GA	Irving, Gregory J.; Round, Philip D.; Savini, Tommaso; Lynam, Antony J.; Gale, George A.		Collapse of a tropical forest bird assemblage surrounding a hydroelectric reservoir	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Hydropower, Terrestrial ecosystems, Sundaland Biodiversity Hotspot, Indo-Burma Biodiversity Hotspot, Edge effects, Avifauna, Chiew Larn reservoir	LOWLAND RAIN-FOREST, FIRE, CONSERVATION, HYDROPOWER, BIODIVERSITY, COMMUNITIES, DISTURBANCE, EXTINCTION, DIVERSITY, RESPONSES	Hydroelectricity is the world's largest source of 'renewable' energy, and deployment will expand considerably in the coming decade, with Asian countries installing the bulk of new generating capacity. Before construction of large hydropower projects, empirical evidence can be utilised to inform public involvement and to realistically ground decision-making processes such as impact mitigation planning and whether or not to build. This study explored changes in avian community richness and diversity among resident forest species surrounding the 165 km(2) Chiew Larn reservoir in southern Thailand, thirty years after inundation. Replicated avian point-counts were undertaken on 23 island sites and 24 nearby mainland transects. A total of 108 habitat structure surveys were conducted. Mainland and islands were composed of remarkably similar bamboo-dominated edge habitat. (log)Area described 82% of the variability in species richness using general linear models and 74% of the variability in community composition using Bray-Curtis non-metric multidimensional scaling. Species richness was similar on mainland and islands; however, the exponential of Shannon diversity was significantly higher on the mainland. Compared to a species pool of recent confirmed records in less disturbed habitat beyond the inundation zone, one fourth of species were missing from mainland sites. The avian community was dominated by a handful of disturbance tolerant species; furthermore, several wide-spread and ecologically tolerant species were also rare or missing. The disturbance-intolerant assemblage experienced collapse. Terrestrial and other understorey insectivores, species associated with mixed-species foraging flocks, middle storey sallying insectivores, and frugivores were severely depauperate, as were Sundaic endemics and species of conservation concern. An estimated 61 km(2) of degraded edge habitat surrounded the reservoir near the study area. Without taking the potential for serious mainland edge effects and associated human disturbance of habitat into consideration, planners will underestimate the potential impact of hydropower development on avian biodiversity. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier B.V.	[Irving, GJ; Savini, T; Gale, GA] King Mongkuts Univ Technol Thonburi, Conservat Ecol Grp, 49 Soi Thienthalay 25,Bangkhunthian Chaithalay Rd, Bangkok 10150, Thailand; [Round, PD] Mahidol Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, Rama 6 Rd, Bangkok 10400, Thailand; [Lynam, AJ] Ctr Global Conservat, Wildlife Conservat Soc, Asia Programs, 55-295 Muang Thong Thani Project 5 Soi 3, Pakkred 11120, Nonthaburi, Thailand	Irving, GJ (reprint author), King Mongkuts Univ Technol Thonburi, Conservat Ecol Grp, 49 Soi Thienthalay 25,Bangkhunthian Chaithalay Rd, Bangkok 10150, Thailand.	girving@fastmail.fm		Lynam, Antony/0000-0002-8395-7902	3	3	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	2351-9894		GLOB ECOL CONSERV	Glob. Ecol. Conserv.	2018	OCT	16					472	472	14		HG5CV	CCC:000454994500030		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Duchardt, CJPorensky, LMAugustine, DJBeck, JL	Duchardt, Courtney J.; Porensky, Lauren M.; Augustine, David J.; Beck, Jeffrey L.		Disturbance shapes avian communities on a grassland-sagebrush ecotone	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biodiversity, Brewer's sparrow, ecosystem engineer, fire, grasshopper sparrow, mountain plover, prairie dog, topo-edaphic	BLACK-TAILED PRAIRIE, SAGE-GROUSE, BIRD COMMUNITIES, DOG COLONIES, GREAT-PLAINS, SEMIARID GRASSLAND, ENERGY DEVELOPMENT, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, CENTRAL MONTANA	Ecotones, or transitional zones between ecosystems, are often hotspots for biodiversity and targets for conservation. Where the Great Plains meet the sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) steppe, an opportunity exists to conserve habitat for the two most imperiled avian guilds in North America, grassland and shrub-steppe birds. This ecotone creates a unique challenge with respect to the management of disturbance processes, such as fire and grazing, because grassland and sagebrush-shrubland birds respond quite dissimilarly to disturbance. To address this management challenge and maximize conservation opportunities, we examined the responses of grassland and sagebrush bird communities to disturbance at a grassland-sagebrush ecotone in northeast Wyoming, USA. Specifically, we surveyed bird communities on active black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies and burned areas, as well as on paired undisturbed points in 2016 and 2017. Bird community structure varied in response to both the presence and type of disturbance. Although alpha diversity of avian species was highest on undisturbed sites and burned areas, only prairie dog colonies provided breeding habitat for the imperiled shortgrass-obligate mountain plover (Charadrius montanus), and species turnover (beta diversity) was greatest between on-colony and off-colony points. Furthermore, bird communities were shaped by both disturbance-dependent (e.g., disturbance age) and disturbance-independent (e.g., topography and soils) landscape features. Managers must balance the benefits of high species diversity in undisturbed sagebrush with habitat requirements of other imperiled species like the mountain plover. This may entail prioritizing the amount and distribution of disturbances in relation to population goals for species of conservation concern while simultaneously maintaining a mosaic of all three patch types in this landscape.	[Duchardt, CJ; Beck, JL] Univ Wyoming, Dept Ecosyst Sci & Management, 1000 East Univ Ave, Laramie, WY 82070 USA; [Duchardt, CJ; Beck, JL] Univ Wyoming, Program Ecol, 1000 East Univ Ave, Laramie, WY 82070 USA; [Porensky, LM; Augustine, DJ] USDA ARS, Rangeland Resources & Syst Res Unit, 1701 Ctr Ave, Ft Collins, CO 80526 USA	Duchardt, CJ (reprint author), Univ Wyoming, Dept Ecosyst Sci & Management, 1000 East Univ Ave, Laramie, WY 82070 USA.; Duchardt, CJ (reprint author), Univ Wyoming, Program Ecol, 1000 East Univ Ave, Laramie, WY 82070 USA.	cduchard@uwyo.edu		Beck, Jeffrey/0000-0003-0236-7343; Augustine, David/0000-0003-3144-0466; Duchardt, Courtney/0000-0003-4563-0199	8	8	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2018	OCT	9	10				2483	2483	19		GZ6QM	CCC:000449566200002		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Fair, JMHathcock, CDBartlow, AW	Fair, Jeanne M.; Hathcock, Charles D.; Bartlow, Andrew W.		Avian communities are decreasing with pinon pine mortality in the southwest	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bark beetles, Birds, Diversity, Drought, Pilion-juniper woodlands, Tree mortality, Tree thinning	TREE MORTALITY, CLIMATE-CHANGE, REPRODUCTIVE DYNAMICS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, BREEDING BIRDS, JUNIPER, DROUGHT, WOODLAND, VEGETATION, AMPLIFICATION	An increase in tree mortality is expected to occur worldwide due to climate-induced drought and increasing temperatures. The 2000-2002 drought in the southwestern United States was one of the most severe in the last 50 years. It led to a severe outbreak of bark beetles that resulted in high mortality of pinon pine (Pinus edulis) trees on the Pajarito Plateau in Northern New Mexico beginning in 2002. Many areas in pinon-juniper habitat had entire stands of pinon die leaving only juniper (Juniperus spp.). Point count surveys were used to determine avian responses to tree mortality from 2003 to 2013. We also tested whether birds responded differently in sites that were mechanically thinned in 2002 and 2003 on Los Alamos National Laboratory property compared to sites not thinned. Junipers and dead pinon pines due to bark beetles and drought were removed on thinned sites. Richness, diversity, and abundance steadily declined after 2003. There was a 73% decrease in abundance and a 45% decrease in richness from 2003 to 2013. There was no difference in community composition between thinned and unthinned sites. Bird abundance and species richness declined faster in thinned sites than unthinned sites, but diversity decreased similarly in both treatments. Several species disappeared over time and some declined substantially. Our results suggest a delay in bird responses to tree mortality on the Pajarito Plateau. Pinon mortality may be a significant threat to bird communities in the southwestern U.S., and tree thinning to control fire may be an added risk.	[Fair, JM; Bartlow, AW] Los Alamos Natl Lab, Biosecur & Publ Hlth, Mailstop M888, Los Alamos, NM 87545 USA; [Hathcock, CD] Los Alamos Natl Lab, Environm Stewardship, Mailstop M978, Los Alamos, NM 87545 USA	Bartlow, AW (reprint author), Los Alamos Natl Lab, Biosecur & Publ Hlth, Mailstop M888, Los Alamos, NM 87545 USA.	abartlow@lanl.gov		Bartlow, Andrew/0000-0002-1254-4481	10	10	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2018	OCT	226					186	195	10		GV3KN	CCC:000445992900020					2019-04-10J	Schwarz, CTrautner, JFartmann, T	Schwarz, Cinja; Trautner, Juergen; Fartmann, Thomas		Common pastures are important refuges for a declining passerine bird in a pre-alpine agricultural landscape	JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Landscape heterogeneity, Land-use change, Farmland bird, Habitat structure, Traditional land use, Tree Pipit (Anthus trivialis)	PIPIT ANTHUS-TRIVIALIS, HABITAT SELECTION, POPULATION TRENDS, FARMLAND BIRDS, EUROPE, BIODIVERSITY, INTENSIFICATION, CONSERVATION, COMMUNITIES, SUCCESS	Agricultural landscapes play an important role in biodiversity conservation. The Tree Pipit (Anthus trivialis) was once a widespread breeding bird in European farmlands. Today, however, its numbers are sharply declining in most European countries. The aim of our study was to compare territory densities of Tree Pipits in common pastures and control plots in the surrounding pre-alpine agricultural landscape in southern Bavaria (Germany). Additionally, we determined the drivers of territory and home-range establishment in Tree Pipits. Habitat composition in common pastures and control plots reflected distinct differences in land-use intensity. Common pastures had larger areas of nutrient-poor habitats and higher landscape diversity compared to control plots. In line with this, we detected a clear response of Tree Pipits to differences in habitat composition. Territories were nearly exclusively found in common pastures. Within the common pastures, Tree Pipits preferred those parts that had higher landscape diversity and, additionally, at the territory scale, larger areas of groups of trees. The common pastures are important refuges for the threatened Tree Pipit in the pre-alpine agricultural landscape of the study area. In contrast to the control plots, the common pastures provided (i) sufficient suitable song posts and (ii) heterogeneous vegetation with appropriate nesting sites and a high availability of arthropod food resources. Our study corroborates findings from other studies across Europe highlighting the prime importance of traditionally used wood pastures for the Tree Pipit, and for biodiversity in general.	[Schwarz, C; Fartmann, T] Osnabruck Univ, Fac Biol & Chem, Dept Biodivers & Landscape Ecol, Barbarastr 11, D-49076 Osnabruck, Germany; [Trautner, J] Working Grp Anim Ecol & Planning, Johann Strauss Str 22, D-70794 Filderstadt, Germany; [Fartmann, T] Inst Biodivers & Landscape Ecol IBL, Hafenweg 31, D-48155 Munster, Germany	Fartmann, T (reprint author), Osnabruck Univ, Fac Biol & Chem, Dept Biodivers & Landscape Ecol, Barbarastr 11, D-49076 Osnabruck, Germany.	t.fartmann@uos.de		Fartmann, Thomas/0000-0002-2050-9221	11	12	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0021-8375		J ORNITHOL	J. Ornithol.	2018	OCT	159	4				945	954	10		GQ7RP	CCC:000441943700007					2019-04-10J	McFadden, TNDirzo, R	McFadden, Tyler N.; Dirzo, Rodolfo		Opening the silvicultural toolbox: A new framework for conserving biodiversity in Chilean timber plantations	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Forest management, Chile, Pinus radiata, Eucalyptus, Understory, Land-use change	TEMPERATE RAIN-FOREST, FRAGMENTED LANDSCAPE, HABITAT STRUCTURE, PINE PLANTATIONS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, PLANTED FORESTS, MAULINO FOREST, NATIVE FORESTS, COASTAL RANGE, WATER YIELD	Intensively managed timber plantations represent 7% of global forest cover and may partially compensate for deforestation-related biodiversity loss, yet are often criticized as 'green deserts' which support limited biodiversity. Growing concerns about the environmental impact of plantations in Chile have prompted numerous calls for a new forestry paradigm. Here, we systematically review the literature on biodiversity maintenance or loss in Chilean timber plantations and outline a new framework for biodiversity conservation therein, envisioning plantations as potential habitat that can be improved through informed management. Our review (N = 67 relevant publications) shows a strong taxonomic bias towards plants, mammals, birds, and invertebrates, as well as biases in the age and species composition of plantations studied. Most studies (78%) examined Pinta radiata plantations, 48% examined mature stands, and 46% did not specify stand age. Research to date is difficult to translate into conservation policy, since most studies simply compare biodiversity within versus outside of plantations, and do not evaluate alternative management options. To better inform conservation, we identify six critical stages of plantation development during which management decisions may greatly influence biodiversity outcomes. Within each stage we discuss the effects of specific management practices on Chilean biodiversity, highlighting opportunities and key knowledge gaps. Strategies which promote structural complexity, understory cover, and landscape connectivity should help convert plantations into a less hostile matrix that provides adequate habitat for substantial native biodiversity. Given the global proliferation of plantations and their consequences for biodiversity, similar studies are needed in multiple regions of the world.	[McFadden, TN; Dirzo, R] Stanford Univ, Dept Biol, Stanford, CA 94305 USA	McFadden, TN (reprint author), Stanford Univ, Dept Biol, Stanford, CA 94305 USA.	tyler.neal.mcfadden@gmail.com		McFadden, Tyler/0000-0002-9593-3895	12	30	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2018	OCT	425					75	84	10		GM3KW	CCC:000438004500009					2019-04-10J	Greenberg, CHTomcho, JLivings-Tomcho, ALanham, JDWaldrop, TASimon, DHagan, D	Greenberg, Cathryn H.; Tomcho, Joseph; Livings-Tomcho, Aimee; Lanham, J. Drew; Waldrop, Thomas A.; Simon, Dean; Hagan, Donald		Long-term avian response to fire severity, repeated burning, and mechanical fuel reduction in upland hardwood forest	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Breeding birds, Fire severity, Fire surrogate, Fuel reduction, Oak woodland restoration, Prescribed fire, Repeated burns, Upland hardwood forest	BREEDING BIRDS, REGENERATION TREATMENTS, SAVANNA RESTORATION, OAK WOODLAND, COMMUNITIES, OCCUPANCY, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, DISTURBANCE, MANAGEMENT	Forest restoration, fuel reduction, and wildlife conservation management requires understanding if, and how repeated prescribed fire, fire severity, or mechanical methods can promote goals. We examined breeding bird response to repeated fuel reduction treatments by mechanical understory reduction (twice; Mechanical-only), prescribed burning (four times; Burn-only), or mechanical understory reduction plus burning (then three subsequent burns; Mechanical + Burn). Initial burns were hotter in Mechanical + Burn than Burn-only resulting in heavy tree mortality, canopy openness, thick shrub density, and abundant snags lasting several years. Relative density and species richness of birds increased in Mechanical + Burn within three breeding seasons of high severity burns, and remained greater throughout subsequent burn. Increases were due to an influx of species associated with young forest conditions, with little change in most mature forest species. Repeated burning in Mechanical + Burn likely impeded forest maturation, allowing many scrub-shrub bird species to persist. Species richness in Burn-only did not differ from any treatment, but modest increases over time were apparent as structural heterogeneity increased with delayed tree mortality. Cavity-nester density was highest in Mechanical + Burn, but remained high even as snags fell to pretreatment levels. Ground-nester density was lower in Mechanical + Burn than Control and Mechanical-only, but ground-nesting species responded differently. Open woodlands were not created by any treatment due to persistent re-sprouting of top-killed trees and shrubs. We note that breeding birds appear to respond similarly to high-severity burns and silvicultural treatments with heavy canopy reduction, offering possible alternatives in managing upland hardwood forests for diverse breeding bird communities.	[Greenberg, CH] US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, Bent Creek Expt Forest, 1577 Brevard Rd, Asheville, NC 28806 USA; [Tomcho, J] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, 78 Wildlife Lane, Burnsville, NC 28714 USA; [Livings-Tomcho, A] Audubon North Carolina, POB 1544, Burnsville, NC 28714 USA; [Lanham, JD; Hagan, D] Clemson Univ, Dept Forestry & Environm Conservat, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Waldrop, TA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Simon, D] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, 8676 Will Hudson Rd, Lawndale, NC 28090 USA	Greenberg, CH (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, Bent Creek Expt Forest, 1577 Brevard Rd, Asheville, NC 28806 USA.	kgreenberg@fs.fed.us			14	16	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2018	SEP	424					367	377	11		GM3AJ	CCC:000437967900034					2019-04-10J	Pinto-Correia, TGuiomar, NFerraz-de-Oliveira, MISales-Baptista, ERabaca, JGodinho, CRibeiro, NSousa, PSSantos, PSantos-Silva, CSimoes, MPBelo, ADFCatarino, LCosta, PFonseca, EGodinho, SAzeda, CAlmeida, MGomes, Lde Castro, JLLouro, RSilvestre, MVaz, M	Pinto-Correia, T.; Guiomar, N.; Ferraz-de-Oliveira, M., I; Sales-Baptista, E.; Rabaca, J.; Godinho, C.; Ribeiro, N.; Sa Sousa, P.; Santos, P.; Santos-Silva, C.; Simoes, M. P.; Belo, A. D. F.; Catarino, L.; Costa, P.; Fonseca, E.; Godinho, S.; Azeda, C.; Almeida, M.; Gomes, L.; Lopes de Castro, J.; Louro, R.; Silvestre, M.; Vaz, M.		Progress in Identifying High Nature Value Montados: Impacts of Grazing on Hardwood Rangeland Biodiversity	RANGELAND ECOLOGY & MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biodiversity, conservation policy, cork oak, ecosystem services, grazing, incentives, silvopastoral systems	LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY, SOUTHERN PORTUGAL, WOOD-PASTURES, OAK WOODLANDS, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, IBERIAN PENINSULA, REGRESSION TREES, LAND-COVER, MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION	Due to their complex structure and traditional low-intensity management, Portuguese oak woodland rangelands known as montados are often considered high nature value (HNV) farming systems, and as such, they may be deemed eligible for subsidies and incentives by governmental and nongovernmental agencies. Too little is known about how the HNV concept might be applied to conserve complex silvopastoral systems. These systems, due to their structural and functional complexity at multiple scales, tend to support high levels of biodiversity. Montados are in sharp decline as a result of the rapid specialization of land management that, through simplification, undermines multifunctionality. Understanding how changes in management influence these systems and their biodiversity is needed for prioritizing conservation efforts and for ensuring they remain HNV systems. On the basis of a field survey in 58 plots distributed among 29 paddocks on 17 farms, we conducted an integrated analysis of the relationship between grazing intensity and biodiversity in montados of similar biophysical and structural characteristics. Data on management were obtained through interviews, and biodiversity data (vegetation, macrofungi, birds, herpetofauna) were obtained through specific field protocols. Additional spatial data, such as soil characteristics, slope, land cover, and linear landscape elements, were also analyzed. The results show no overall biodiversity variation as a result of different management practices. However, different groups of species react differently to specific management practices, and within a pasture, grazing impacts are heterogenous. In low grazing intensity plots, macrofungi species richness was found to be higher, while bird species richness was lower. Using tree regeneration as proxy for montado sustainability, results show less tree regeneration in areas with higher forage quality and more intense grazing. Pathways for future progress are proposed, including creating areas within a paddock that attract grazing away from where regeneration is desired. (C) 2018 The Society for Range Management. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	[Pinto-Correia, T; Guiomar, N; Ferraz-de-Oliveira, MI; Sales-Baptista, E; Rabaca, J; Godinho, C; Ribeiro, N; Sousa, PS; Santos, P; Santos-Silva, C; Simoes, MP; Belo, ADF; Catarino, L; Costa, P; Fonseca, E; Godinho, S; Azeda, C; Almeida, M; Gomes, L; de Castro, JL; Louro, R; Silvestre, M; Vaz, M] Univ Evora, ICAAM, P-7000 Evora, Portugal	Pinto-Correia, T (reprint author), Univ Evora, ICAAM, P-7000 Evora, Portugal.	mtpc@uevora.pt	Sales-Baptista, Elvira/; Guiomar, Nuno/; Godinho, Carlos/A-5901-2010	Sales-Baptista, Elvira/0000-0002-6318-4498; Guiomar, Nuno/0000-0003-4627-6128; Godinho, Carlos/0000-0001-8892-6315	7	7	SOC RANGE MANAGEMENT	LAKEWOOD	445 UNION BLVD, STE 230, LAKEWOOD, CO 80228-1259 USA	http://www.srmjournals.org	1550-7424		RANGELAND ECOL MANAG	Rangel. Ecol. Manag.	2018	SEP	71	5				612	625	14		GW4CV	CCC:000446859300011		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Khan, ULovari, SShah, SAFerretti, F	Khan, U.; Lovari, S.; Shah, S. Ali; Ferretti, F.		Predator, prey and humans in a mountainous area: loss of biological diversity leads to trouble	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Human-carnivore coexistence, Human-wildlife conflict, Food habits, Panthera pardus	HUMAN-DOMINATED LANDSCAPES, LEOPARD PANTHERA-PARDUS, LARGE CARNIVORES, SNOW LEOPARDS, NATIONAL-PARK, BIODIVERSITY LOSS, HOME-RANGE, LIVESTOCK PREDATION, WILD PREY, PATTERNS	Large carnivore-human coexistence is a challenging issue in wildlife conservation worldwide. An adequate and diverse prey spectrum favours carnivore persistence. Prey depletion and habitat loss elicit conflict with humans and require sound conservation measures. We evaluated the conflict between common leopards and humans in a densely populated Himalayan forest area of Pakistan. In two decades, the local forests decreased at an average rate of 65.5 ha/year (6.6%), with a concomitant increase in areas covered by human settlements (81.5%) and agricultural lands (15.4%). Ranging movements of a GPS/GSM-radiotagged male leopard over 16 months encompassed an area inhabited by c. 124,000 people. Livestock dominated the leopard's diet (absolute frequency of occurrence: 80%), while wild ungulates were rarely eaten (absolute occurrence: 22%). Domestic goats were the most frequent diet item (61%), followed by domestic dogs (12%) and Bos spp. (6%). Wild prey included canids, small carnivores, rhesus monkeys, small mammals and gallinaceous birds. Socioeconomic implications of human-leopard coexistence were investigated: 18.5% of the households interviewed (N = 1016) suffered livestock depredation by leopards, with an overall loss of 123 USD/km(2)/year, in an area of 328 km(2). In the first c. 15 years of this century, about 2 attacks to humans/year were recorded, half of which were lethal, whereas c. 6 leopards/year were killed in retaliation. The common leopard is 'critically endangered' in Pakistan mainly because of habitat loss and concurrent prey depletion. To increase the long-term survival of leopards and mitigate human-carnivore conflicts, priority should be given to restoration of a diverse natural prey assembly and protection of forest habitats, together with improved livestock management practices and livestock compensation. The latter will require a sustainable financial mechanism.	[Khan, U; Lovari, S; Ferretti, F] Univ Siena, Dept Life Sci, Res Unit Behav Ecol Ethol & Wildlife Management, Via PA Mattioli 4, I-53100 Siena, Italy; [Khan, U] WWF Pakistan, Lahore, Pakistan; [Lovari, S] Maremma Nat Hist Museum, Str Corsini, I-58100 Grosseto, Italy; [Shah, SA] Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Wildlife Dept, Peshawar, Pakistan	Lovari, S (reprint author), Univ Siena, Dept Life Sci, Res Unit Behav Ecol Ethol & Wildlife Management, Via PA Mattioli 4, I-53100 Siena, Italy.; Lovari, S (reprint author), Maremma Nat Hist Museum, Str Corsini, I-58100 Grosseto, Italy.	sandro.lovari@gmail.com		LOVARI, Sandro/0000-0002-9945-0268; Ferretti, Francesco/0000-0002-0414-1615	36	66	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2018	SEP	27	11				2795	2813	19		GO1RV	CCC:000439733400003					2019-04-10J	St-Amand, JTremblay, JAMartin, K	St-Amand, Julien; Tremblay, Junior A.; Martin, Kathy		Foraging ecology of the Williamson's Sapsucker: Implications for forest management	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Foraging habitat, telemetry, Sphyrapicus thyroideus, resource selection function, woodpecker, large trees, Pseudotsuga menziesii var. glauca, montane forest	YELLOW-BELLIED SAPSUCKERS, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, MIXED-EFFECTS MODELS, SPHYRAPICUS-VARIUS, BRITISH-COLUMBIA, PILEATED WOODPECKERS, RESOURCE SELECTION, ACADIAN FOREST, EASTERN CANADA, BOREAL FORESTS	Williamson's Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus thyroideus) are montane woodpeckers threatened by widespread tree removal activities and climate change. Current forest management plans focus on nesting trees, but the incorporation of foraging trees would lead to a more effective management strategy to mitigate habitat loss for this species. We investigated the selection of foraging trees in forests managed for timber extraction and maintenance of wildlife values using foraging observations of 27 radio-tagged adult Williamson's Sapsuckers during the breeding season in 2 regions (Okanagan and Western) of their limited Canadian range. Characteristics of foraging trees (88% of observations on live trees, 11% on dead trees) differed with foraging mode. Large, live Douglas-firs (Pseudotsuga menziesii; >= 22.5 cm dbh) were used for gleaning and sap feeding on tree trunks in both regions, whereas trees used for trunk pecking were mostly large, senescent western larches (Larix occidentalis) in the Okanagan region and large, dead ponderosa pines (Pinus ponderosa) in the Western region (average dbh = 46 cm). For overall foraging activities, Williamson's Sapsuckers selected large, live Douglas-firs with signs of resin exudation and blistering (pitching), and avoided live lodgepole pines (Pinus contorta), quaking aspens (Populus tremuloides), and ponderosa pines. Larger trees and standing dead conifer trees were reused more often for foraging than smaller and live trees. The quality of Williamson's Sapsucker habitat could decrease over the long term if forest management practices reduce the overall size of trees or alter tree species composition to promote lodgepole pine. Forest management should focus on retaining and promoting large live Douglas-fir trees and large senescent or standing dead conifers (also used for nesting), which can be achieved by using thinning, prescribed fire, partial harvesting, and tree retention strategies.	[St-Amand, J; Martin, K] Univ British Columbia, Dept Forest & Conservat Sci, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Tremblay, JA] Environm & Climate Change Canada, Sci & Technol Branch, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Martin, K] Environm & Climate Change Canada, Sci & Technol Branch, Delta, BC, Canada	St-Amand, J (reprint author), Univ British Columbia, Dept Forest & Conservat Sci, Vancouver, BC, Canada.	julien.st-amand@alumni.ubc.ca			11	11	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2018	AUG	120	3				680	702	23		GQ1LN	CCC:000441392900016					2019-04-10J	Li, LTietze, DTFritz, ALu, ZBurgi, MStorch, I	Li, Li; Tietze, Dieter Thomas; Fritz, Andreas; Lu, Zhi; Burgi, Matthias; Storch, Ilse		Rewilding cultural landscape potentially puts both endemism at risk: A Tibetan Plateau case study	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Ecological restoration, Landscape heterogeneity, Biodiversity, Sanjiangyuan, Alpine grassland, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle	LAND-USE, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, OCHOTONA-CURZONIAE, FARMLAND BIRDS, ABANDONMENT, DIVERSITY, RESTORATION, ECOSYSTEMS, ECOLOGY, HABITAT	Ecological restoration is becoming a primary strategy to increase provisions of ecosystem services and reverse biodiversity losses. In cultural landscapes undergoing land use extensification, rewilding has been proposed as a viable approach to reverse biodiversity loss through reducing human impacts. The world's largest ecological restoration campaign is taking place on the eastern Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP) to combat grassland degradation and enhance the upper stream region's water retention capacity. However, little is known about whether the large-scale rewilding also benefits the unique bird assemblage of the eastern QTP. Our study aims to make science-based conservation recommendations for the Tibetan avifauna by detecting their diversity and endemism distribution patterns at the local scale. In the breeding seasons of 2014 and 2015, we carried out bird surveys and conducted a habitat mapping using three Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). We developed a comprehensive set of 2D and 3D habitat feature parameters from the high-resolution (10 cm level) UAV-derived images. Meanwhile, we employed the participatory GIS approach to acquire farm-scale human land-use data. Our results indicate that the distributions of avian diversity, endemism and abundance are not congruent across the eastern QTP, which calls for the conservation of different habitat types. Vertical and horizontal habitat heterogeneity maintain the local bird diversity with anthropogenic elements significantly enriching the overall bird abundance. Degraded pastures provided key habitats for two highly abundant endemic passerines the White-rumped Snowfinch Ortychosmuthus taczanowskii and the Ground Tit Pseudopodoces humilis. At the landscape scale, historical human-nature interactions between Tibetan nomads and the alpine environment formed the landscapes patchy vegetation structure. Our results reveal that the Tibetan cultural landscape maintains the structural heterogeneity needed to achieve multiple bird conservation objectives on the eastern QTP. Restoring the cultural landscape to a 'natural' tall-grass or dense-shrubland state of high water-retention capacity may result in the loss of both high-abundance avian communities and endemic species diversity. Our empirical study also indicated that rewilding abandoned agricultural landscape will not necessarily lead to a desired conservation outcome, especially when the requirements of habitat specialists and endemics are not taken into account. Moreover, ecological restoration projects should evaluate the divergences between their ecosystem service and biodiversity objectives.	[Li, L; Storch, I] Univ Freiburg, Wildlife Ecol & Management, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany; [Tietze, DT] Nat Hist Museum Basel, Augustinergasse 2, CH-4001 Basel, Switzerland; [Fritz, A] Univ Freiburg, Remote Sensing & Land Informat Syst, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany; [Lu, Z] Peking Univ, Sch Life Sci, Beijing 100871, Peoples R China; [Burgi, M] Swiss Fed Res Inst WSL, Res Unit Landscape Dynam, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland	Li, L (reprint author), Univ Freiburg, Wildlife Ecol & Management, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany.	li.li@wildlife.uni-freiburg.de	Burgi, Matthias/C-8357-2009; Tietze, Dieter Thomas/A-1366-2011; Storch, Ilse/G-6328-2012	Burgi, Matthias/0000-0001-9681-601X; Tietze, Dieter Thomas/0000-0001-6868-227X; 	25	35	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2018	AUG	224					75	86	12		GN9PY	CCC:000439537600009					2019-04-10J	Naumov, VManton, MElbakidze, MRendenieks, ZPriednieks, JUhlianets, SYamelynets, TZhivotov, AAngelstam, P	Naumov, Vladimir; Manton, Michael; Elbakidze, Marine; Rendenieks, Zigmars; Priednieks, Janis; Uhlianets, Siarhei; Yamelynets, Taras; Zhivotov, Anton; Angelstam, Per		How to reconcile wood production and biodiversity conservation? The Pan-European boreal forest history gradient as an "experiment"	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bio-economy, Conservation, Forest policy, Intensification, Land-sharing, Land-sparing, Spatial planning, Sustainable forest management	CAPERCAILLIE TETRAO-UROGALLUS, WHITE-BACKED WOODPECKER, MODELING HABITAT SUITABILITY, GROUSE BONASA-BONASIA, DEAD WOOD, SUSTAIN BIODIVERSITY, KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION, MULTIPLE SCALES, MANAGED BOREAL, LANDSCAPE	There are currently competing demands on Europe's forests and the finite resources and services that they can offer. Forestry intensification that aims at mitigating climate change and biodiversity conservation is one example. Whether or not these two objectives compete can be evaluated by comparative studies of forest landscapes with different histories. We test the hypothesis that indicators of wood production and biodiversity conservation are inversely related in a gradient of long to short forestry intensification histories. Forest management data containing stand age, volume and tree species were used to model the opportunity for wood production and biodiversity conservation in five north European forest regions representing a gradient in landscape history from very long in the West and short in the East. Wood production indicators captured the supply of coniferous wood and total biomass, as well as current accessibility by transport infrastructure. Biodiversity conservation indicators were based on modelling habitat network functionality for focal bird species dependent on different combinations of stand age and tree species composition representing naturally dynamic forests. In each region we randomly sampled 25 individual 100-km(2) areas with contiguous forest cover. Regarding wood production, Sweden's Bergslagen region had the largest areas of coniferous wood, followed by Vitebsk in Belarus and Zemgale in Latvia. NW Russia's case study regions in Pskov and Komi had the lowest values, except for the biomass indicator. The addition of forest accessibility for transportation made the Belarusian and Swedish study region most suitable for wood and biomass production, followed by Latvia and two study regions in NW Russian. Regarding biodiversity conservation, the overall rank among regions was opposite. Mixed and deciduous habitats were functional in Russia, Belarus and Latvia. Old Scots pine and Norway spruce habitats were only functional in Komi. Thus, different regional forest histories provide different challenges in terms of satisfying both wood production and biodiversity conservation objectives in a forest management unit. These regional differences in northern Europe create opportunities for exchanging experiences among different regional contexts about how to achieve both objectives. We discuss this in the context of land-sharing versus land-sparing. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Naumov, V; Elbakidze, M; Angelstam, P] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Sch Forest Management, POB 43, SE-73921 Skinnskatteberg, Sweden; [Manton, M] Aleksandras Stulginskis Univ, Inst Forest Biol & Silviculture, Studentu G 11, LT-53361 Akademija, Kauno R, Lithuania; [Rendenieks, Z] Univ Latvia, Fac Geog & Earth Sci, Jelgavas Iela 1, LV-1004 Riga, Latvia; [Rendenieks, Z] Univ Latvia, Fac Biol, Jelgavas Iela 1, LV-1004 Riga, Latvia; [Uhlianets, S] VF Kuprevich Inst Expt Bot, 27 Akad St, Minsk 220072, BELARUS; [Yamelynets, T] Ivan Franko Natl Univ, Fac Geog, 41 Doroshenko St, UA-79000 Lvov, Ukraine; [Zhivotov, A] Pskovlesproekt Co, Shkolnaya St 6, Pskov 18006, Russia	Naumov, V (reprint author), Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Sch Forest Management, POB 43, SE-73921 Skinnskatteberg, Sweden.	vladimir.v.naumov@gmail.com		Yamelynets, Taras/0000-0002-7058-0931; Angelstam, Per/0000-0003-2190-3172	24	48	ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	LONDON	24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND	http://www.apnet.com	0301-4797		J ENVIRON MANAGE	J. Environ. Manage.	2018	JUL	218					1	13	13		GH7QZ	CCC:000433649800001	29660541				2019-04-10J	Jahnig, SAlba, RVallino, CRosselli, DPittarello, MRolando, AChamberlain, D	Jahnig, Susanne; Alba, Riccardo; Vallino, Cristina; Rosselli, Domenico; Pittarello, Marco; Rolando, Antonio; Chamberlain, Dan		The contribution of broadscale and finescale habitat structure to the distribution and diversity of birds in an Alpine forest-shrub ecotone	JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Habitat management, Grazing, Mountains, Vegetation structure, Species distribution models, Habitat mosaic	CLIMATE-CHANGE, EUROPEAN ALPS, ITALIAN ALPS, SNOW COVER, SUB-ALPINE, SWISS ALPS, ABANDONMENT, VEGETATION, ELEVATION, PATTERNS	In a mountain context, the forest-shrub ecotone is an area of high biodiversity. Relatively little is known about the habitat requirements of birds in this habitat, yet it is facing potential threats from changes in grazing practices and climate change. Moreover, it is not clear at which scale habitat associations should be assessed in Alpine birds. Further information on key habitat components affecting bird communities of the ecotone is needed in order to inform management strategies to counteract potential habitat loss, and to better inform predictions of how bird communities may be affected by future environmental change. Data on bird occurrence and broadscale (land cover) and finescale (vegetation structure and shrub species composition) habitat variables were collected in an Alpine forest-shrub ecotone in Val Troncea (northwestern Italian Alps) in order to address two objectives: to identify the key habitat variables associated with the occurrence of individual species and with the diversity of the bird community; and, to assess which scale of habitat measurement (broadscale, finescale or both combined) is needed to model bird occurrence. Broadscale variables, or combinations of broadscale and finescale variables, tended to have the best performing models. When combined models performed best, shrub species identity was included in many cases. Shrubs also played an important role in explaining variations in species diversity and richness. Vegetation structure was of relatively little importance, either for individual bird species or for species richness and diversity. These findings suggest that management should strive to maintain a mosaic of habitats whilst minimizing forest encroachment, which could be achieved through targeted grazing. Broadscale habitat data and data on shrub species composition should provide a sufficient basis for identifying relevant species-specific habitat parameters in a mountain environment in order to model future scenarios of effects of habitat change on the bird community of the alpine forest-shrub ecotone.	[Jahnig, S; Alba, R; Vallino, C; Rolando, A; Chamberlain, D] Univ Turin, Dept Life Sci & Syst Biol, Via Accademia Albertina 13, I-10123 Turin, Italy; [Rosselli, D] Ente Gest Aree Protette Alpi Cozie, Via Fransua Fontan 1, I-10050 Salbertrand, Italy; [Pittarello, M] Univ Turin, Dept Agr Forest & Food Sci, Largo Paolo Braccini 2, I-10095 Grugliasco, Italy	Jahnig, S (reprint author), Univ Turin, Dept Life Sci & Syst Biol, Via Accademia Albertina 13, I-10123 Turin, Italy.	susanne.jaehnig@gmail.com			14	16	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0021-8375		J ORNITHOL	J. Ornithol.	2018	JUL	159	3				747	759	13		GL3BJ	CCC:000437001800012					2019-04-10J	Matseur, EAThompson, FRDickerson, BERumble, MAMillspaugh, JJ	Matseur, Elizabeth A.; Thompson, Frank R., III; Dickerson, Brian E.; Rumble, Mark A.; Millspaugh, Joshua J.		Black-backed woodpecker abundance in the black hills	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	abundance, black-backed woodpecker, Black Hills, Picoides arcticus, point count, population estimate	PONDEROSA PINE, HABITAT ASSOCIATIONS, CONIFEROUS FORESTS, BOREAL FOREST, SOUTH-DAKOTA, DENSITY, WILDFIRE, BIRDS, FIRE, HOT	The Black Hills population of black-backed woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) was petitioned, but deemed not warranted, to be listed as a threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act and more information on their population size in the region is needed. Our objective was to map abundance and provide a population estimate of black-backed woodpeckers in the Black Hills and Bear Lodge Mountains of South Dakota and Wyoming, USA. We conducted 3,666 and 3,384 5-minute point count surveys from late-March to late-June in 2015 and 2016, respectively. We characterized vegetation around each point using geographic information system-derived landscape variables and fit 3-level hierarchical time-removal models in R package unmarked using gmultmix. The global abundance model received the most support and included year, latitude, and percent area of green trees, beetle-killed trees, dead trees, 1- to 2-year-old wildfire, 3-year-old wildfire, and 4- to 5-year-old wildfire. Points with high percent cover of beetle-killed trees had the greatest density of black-backed woodpeckers, followed by 1- to 2-year-old wildfires. After 4 years, areas burned by wildfire supported lower densities of black-backed woodpeckers than undisturbed forests. Mean density was 0.528birds/km(2) in 2015 and 0.626birds/km(2) in 2016. There were an estimated 2,920 and 3,439 black-backed woodpeckers in the Black Hills and Bear Lodge Mountains in 2015 and 2016, respectively. We suggest areas with high percent cover of beetle-killed trees may support high densities of black-backed woodpeckers and are important to sustaining populations when the availability of recent (<4 years old) wildfire is declining or scarce. Published 2018. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.We suggest areas with high percent cover of beetle-killed trees may support high densities of black-backed woodpeckers in the Black Hills and Bear Lodge Mountains, South Dakota and Wyoming, 2015-2016, USA. Beetle-killed trees are important to sustaining black-backed woodpecker populations when the availability of recent (<4 years old) wildfire is declining or scarce.	[Matseur, EA] Univ Missouri, Sch Nat Resources, 302 Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Thompson, FR] US Forest Serv, Northern Res Stn, 202 Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Dickerson, BE; Rumble, MA] US Forest Serv, Rocky Mt Res Stn, 8221 Mt Rushmore Rd, Rapid City, SD 57702 USA; [Millspaugh, JJ] Univ Montana, WA Franke Coll Forestry & Conservat, 32 Campus Dr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA	Matseur, EA (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Sch Nat Resources, 302 Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	eamatseur@mail.missouri.edu			3	3	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2018	JUL	82	5				1039	1048	10		GK0QJ	CCC:000435816100017					2019-04-10J	Grahmann, EDFulbright, TEHernandez, FHehman, MWWester, DBOrtega-Santos, AMartin, BA	Grahmann, Eric D.; Fulbright, Timothy E.; Hernandez, Fidel; Hehman, Michael W.; Wester, David B.; Ortega-Santos, Alfonso; Martin, Blake A.		Demographic and Density Response of Northern Bobwhites to Pyric Herbivory of Non-Native Grasslands	RANGELAND ECOLOGY & MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	buffelgrass, Colinus virginianus, grazing, Northern bobwhite, patch burning, pyric herbivory	PATCH-BURN MANAGEMENT, SOUTH TEXAS, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, HABITAT MANAGEMENT, COMMUNITY RESPONSE, BREEDING BIRDS, BUFFEL GRASS, FIRE, RANGELAND, HETEROGENEITY	Usable space for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) has declined significantly over the past 3 decades in Texas because non-native grasses have replaced native vegetation. We hypothesized that burning patches in pastures dominated by buffelgrass (Pennisetum ciliare) and OldWorld bluestems (Bothriochloa spp. and Dichanthium spp.) followed by livestock grazing would increase limiting habitat attributes, thereby increasing usable space and bobwhite demographic parameters and population densities. Our study was conducted during 2009-2011 in LaSalle County, Texas on a ranch dominated by non-native grasses. Our experimental design was composed of 2 blocks with two 240-ha pastures, one control (graze only), and one treatment (patch-burn and graze) in each. We estimated grass standing crop in grazing exclosures (June-September) and habitat attributes along transects (October) 2009-2011. Bobwhites were captured and monitored via radiotelemetry 2-3 times/wk during March-November. Means of vegetation metrics important to bobwhites such as bare ground, traversibility, and forb and subshrub cover were similar between control and treatment units in post-treatment years. However, grass standing crop tended to be lower in treatment (June and August 2010 and September 2011-110.5 +/- 26.2 g/m(2)) compared with control units (June and August 2010 and September 2011-145.5 +/- 58.6 g/m(2)). Plant species richness was also greater (21%) in treatment (4.6 +/- 0.4/0.1 m(2)) compared with control units (3.8 +/- 0.4/0.1 m(2)) during the last year of the study (P = 0.057). Patch heterogeneity was increased in treatment units. There was an increase in bobwhite densities in treatment units, although demographicmetrics remained similar between treatment and controls. Patch burning and grazing is a viable tool for managing monotypic non-native grasslands for bobwhites in semiarid environments. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of The Society for Range Management.	[Grahmann, ED; Fulbright, TE; Hernandez, F; Wester, DB; Ortega-Santos, A] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Anim & Wildlife Sci, Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Res Inst, 700 Univ Blvd, Kingsville, TX 78363 USA; [Hehman, MW; Martin, BA] Hixon Ranch, Cotulla, TX 78014 USA	Grahmann, ED (reprint author), Texas A&M Univ, Dept Anim & Wildlife Sci, Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Res Inst, 700 Univ Blvd, Kingsville, TX 78363 USA.	eric.grahmann@tamuk.edu			8	10	SOC RANGE MANAGEMENT	LAKEWOOD	445 UNION BLVD, STE 230, LAKEWOOD, CO 80228-1259 USA	http://www.srmjournals.org	1550-7424		RANGELAND ECOL MANAG	Rangel. Ecol. Manag.	2018	JUL	71	4				458	469	12		GJ6GA	CCC:000435480900008					2019-04-10J	Newman, EAPotts, JBTingley, MWVaughn, CStephens, SL	Newman, Erica A.; Potts, Jennifer B.; Tingley, Morgan W.; Vaughn, Charles; Stephens, Scott L.		Chaparral bird community responses to prescribed fire and shrub removal in three management seasons	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird communities, California chaparral, California Floristic Province, Fire and Fire Surrogates, mastication, prescribed fire, shrublands, wildfire management	WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE, FUEL REDUCTION METHODS, NATIONAL FIRE, SURROGATE, WILDFIRE, CONSEQUENCES, BIODIVERSITY, CALIFORNIA, DIVERSITY, ABUNDANCE	1. Chaparral, a type of shrubland common throughout the California Floristic Province, is subject to management and removal in regions where wildfire threatens human lives and property. Management practices include conducting prescribed burns outside of the historical fire season and employing mechanical fuel reduction (mastication). As the wildland-urban interface grows, particularly in coastal California, more of this ecosystem is subject to active management.2. To understand the ecological implications of current California chaparral fire management practices, we studied bird species composition, abundance and foraging guilds in managed and unmanaged chaparral over 5 years. Study areas were located in Mendocino County in the coast ranges of northern California. We contrast six chaparral removal or "fuels manipulation" treatments: (1) fall fire, (2) winter fire, (3) spring fire, (4) fall mastication, (5) spring mastication and (6) untreated control. Treatments and controls were implemented in plots 2 ha or larger, and replicated four times each.3. We find that species richness in prescribed fire treatments reaches comparable levels to controls in the first 3 years following treatment, whereas masticated units always have lower species richness. Generalized linear mixed models additionally confirm that mastication has highly negative effects on observed abundances of birds compared to controls and to prescribed fire.4. The season in which fuels reduction occurred was less important to species richness, although fall fire was more beneficial to bird abundance than spring or winter fire. Fire treatments in all seasons maintain the same general bird community structure as controls, while mastication results in strongly differentiated assemblages, increasing granivores while nearly excluding foliage gleaners.5. Synthesis and applications. We compare two California chaparral management techniques, prescribed fire and mastication, in three seasons (fall, winter and spring) in northern California, USA. We tracked chaparral bird community response in 23 experimental units for 2-5 years. We conclude that prescribed fire and mastication are not interchangeable management techniques, and that mastication negatively impacts bird communities, altering guild structure and reducing both diversity and abundance.	[Newman, EA; Potts, JB; Stephens, SL] Univ Calif Berkeley, Dept Environm Sci Policy & Management, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA; [Newman, EA] Univ Arizona, Sch Nat Resources & Environm, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Newman, EA] US Forest Serv, Pacific Wildland Fire Sci Lab, Seattle, WA 98103 USA; [Potts, JB] Bouverie Preserve, Glen Ellen, CA USA; [Tingley, MW] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT USA; [Vaughn, C] Univ Calif Hopland, Res & Extens Ctr, Hopland, CA USA	Newman, EA (reprint author), Univ Calif Berkeley, Dept Environm Sci Policy & Management, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA.; Newman, EA (reprint author), Univ Arizona, Sch Nat Resources & Environm, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA.; Newman, EA (reprint author), US Forest Serv, Pacific Wildland Fire Sci Lab, Seattle, WA 98103 USA.	newmane@berkeley.edu		Newman, Erica/0000-0001-6433-8594; Tingley, Morgan/0000-0002-1477-2218	41	47	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2018	JUL	55	4				1615	1625	11		GJ0UP	CCC:000434970200006					2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DBMcBurney, LBlair, DWood, JBanks, SC	Lindenmayer, David B.; McBurney, Lachlan; Blair, David; Wood, Jeff; Banks, Sam C.		From unburnt to salvage logged: Quantifying bird responses to different levels of disturbance severity	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	mountain ash, salvage logging, variable retention harvesting	CLIMATE-CHANGE, RETENTION FORESTRY, ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, CENTRAL HIGHLANDS, FIRE SEVERITY, WILDFIRE, BIODIVERSITY, VICTORIA, MANAGEMENT, AUSTRALIA	1. Forests world-wide are increasingly subject to natural and human disturbances, including wildfires and logging of varying intensity and frequency. Understanding how biodiversity responds to different kinds and combinations of natural and human disturbance is critical to enhanced forest management.2. We completed an 8-year study of bird responses across a spectrum of disturbance types in Australian mountain ash (Eucalyptus regnans) forests following wildfires in 2009.3. We found evidence of a gradient in bird species richness over the study duration. It was highest in unlogged and unburned (least disturbed) sites, decreasing through burnt unlogged forest (subject to high or low intensity fire), lower still in logged forest, and lowest in the most disturbed sites (subject to salvage logging without island retention). Retention of uncut islands within logged areas increased bird species richness above that found in areas that had been clearcut.4. The greatest rate of increase per year after disturbance in bird species richness was on sites burnt by high-severity fire but which were not subject to any form of logging. The level of disturbance affected the composition of the bird assemblage. Sites that were unlogged and unburned were more likely to support species that were larger, more mobile, and nested at greater heights above the ground.5. Synthesis and applications. All forms of logging on burned sites impaired recovery in bird species richness relative to sites subject to high-severity fire. Alterations in stand structure and plant species composition (and hence modification in bird habitat suitability) due to logging are the most likely reasons for reduced bird species richness and delayed patterns of recovery. This study highlights the importance for native bird species of retaining patches of unlogged forest not only within otherwise clearcut forest, but also in areas that are burned and subject to salvage logging. We therefore suggest that the adoption of retention harvesting be expanded to include stands disturbed by wildfires.	[Lindenmayer, DB; McBurney, L; Blair, D; Wood, J; Banks, SC] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; McBurney, L; Blair, D; Wood, J; Banks, SC] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Long Term Ecol Res Network, Canberra, ACT, Australia	Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Long Term Ecol Res Network, Canberra, ACT, Australia.	david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au.au		/0000-0003-2415-0057	8	18	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2018	JUL	55	4				1626	1636	11		GJ0UP	CCC:000434970200007					2019-04-10J	Dietz, MBrombacher, MErasmy, MFenchuk, VSimon, O	Dietz, Markus; Brombacher, Michael; Erasmy, Maude; Fenchuk, Viktar; Simon, Olaf		Bat community and roost site selection of tree-dwelling bats in a well-preserved European lowland forest	ACTA CHIROPTEROLOGICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	tree-dwelling hats, primeval forests, dead wood, radio tracking, Belovezhskaya Pushcha, conservation	DEAD WOOD, NYCTALUS-NOCTULA, SPECIES COMPOSITION, BIALOWIEZA FOREST, N-LEISLERI, CHIROPTERA, VESPERTILIONIDAE, MANAGEMENT, LANDSCAPE, DYNAMICS	Worldwide species density of hats is highest in forests ecosystems. European primeval forests are now reduced to a few small and isolated patches because almost all forests are subject to management. Therefore, knowledge about bats in ancient and near-natural forests in Europe is scarce. In the well-preserved forest stands of the Belovezhskaya Pushcha National Park in Belarus we studied the bat community (1), the presence of maternity colonies and their preference in tree roost selection (2) and parameters of roosts used by forest dwelling hats (3). By mist-netting surveys, we identified 13 hat species and acoustic data suggested the presence of another three species. We detected 15 maternity colonies of seven bat species by radio-tracking reproductive females and 40 tree roosts within the forest. Roosts of Barbastella barbastellus, Pipistrellus pygmaeus and Plecotus auritus were almost exclusively behind the loose tree bark of decaying trees, or within narrow crevices. Myotis nauereri and Nyetalus leisleri showed a preference towards hollows (e.g., woodpecker-made cavities) within oak trees (Quercus robur). Our study shows that all tree-dwelling bat species are highly dependent on natural processes within forests that allow the formation of roost sites. Therefore, we strongly support that the natural aging process of trees, as well as the consequences of natural disturbance (e.g. through weather), should be permitted. This should extend beyond the protected zones of National Parks. In contrast, sanitary cuttings decrease the habitat's suitability for forest-dwelling hats. Finally, our results indicate that the forest complex of Belovezhskaya Pushcha and Bialowi0.a is one of the most important bat areas in Europe.	[Dietz, M; Simon, O] Inst Anim Ecol & Nat Educ, Hauptstr 30, D-35321 Gonterskirchen, Germany; [Brombacher, M; Fenchuk, V] Frankfurt Zool Soc, Bernhard Grzimek Allee 1, D-60316 Frankfurt, Germany; [Erasmy, M] Univ Gottingen, Dept Plant Ecol & Ecosyst Res, Untere Karspule 2, D-37073 Gottingen, Germany; [Fenchuk, V] APB BirdLife Belarus, Parnikovaya St 11-4, Minsk 220114, BELARUS	Dietz, M (reprint author), Inst Anim Ecol & Nat Educ, Hauptstr 30, D-35321 Gonterskirchen, Germany.	markus.dietz@tieroekologie.com			12	12	MUSEUM & INST ZOOLOGY PAS-POLISH ACAD SCIENCES	WARSAW	WILCZA STREET 64, 00-679 WARSAW, POLAND	http://www.miiz.waw.pl	1508-1109		ACTA CHIROPTEROL	Acta Chiropt.	2018	JUN	20	1				117	127	11		GS4NX	CCC:000443624700008					2019-04-10J	Taillie, PJBurnet, RDRoberts, LJCampos, BRPeterson, MNMoorman, CE	Taillie, Paul J.; Burnet, Ryan D.; Roberts, Lance Jay; Campos, Brent R.; Peterson, M. Nils; Moorman, Christopher E.		Interacting and non-linear avian responses to mixed-severity wildfire and time since fire	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	distance sampling, disturbance, pyrodiversity, Sierra Nevada, succession	BREEDING BIRD POPULATIONS, BLACK-BACKED WOODPECKER, WESTERN UNITED-STATES, SIERRA-NEVADA, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, MODERATE-SEVERITY, CONIFER FORESTS, BURNED FORESTS, CLIMATE-CHANGE, PRONE FORESTS	Non-linear and interacting effects of fire severity and time since fire may help explain how pyrodiversity promotes biodiversity in fire-adapted systems. We built on previous research on avian responses to fire by investigating how complex effects of bum severity and time since fire influenced avian community composition across the northern Sierra Nevada, California. We conducted avian point counts from 2009 to 2015 in 10 fires that burned between 2000 and 2014, resulting in a chronosequence of 1-15 yr post-fire. We estimated the effects of burn severity, time since fire, non-linear and interacting effects of fire severity and time since fire, pre-fire forest conditions, and several physiographic parameters on the density of 44 breeding bird species using hierarchical distance sampling models. In addition, we fit separate models to observations of each species in unburned forest to compare species' densities between burned and unburned forests. At least one of the non-linear or interaction fire effects was significant for 27 (61%) of the 44 bird species. The quadratic effect of time since fire was an important predictor of post-fire densities of 20 species, illustrating the dynamic nature of this post-wildfire avian community. Greater maximum densities were estimated at some combination of burn severity and time since fire than in unburned forest for 13 of the 44 (30%) species, only one of which reached maximum density following low-severity fire. In contrast, all of the 12 species that were more abundant in unburned forest reached maximum post-fire densities in fires that burned at low severity. Results from the study suggest that consideration of the non-linear and interacting effects of fire severity and time since fire is important to fully understanding post-wildfire responses for a majority of birds. Moreover, the study supports a growing body of literature that indicates mixed-severity fire is essential for conserving avian diversity in many fire-maintained systems.	[Taillie, PJ; Peterson, MN; Moorman, CE] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Forestry & Environm Resources, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Burnet, RD; Roberts, LJ; Campos, BR] Poini Blue Conservat Sci, 3820 Cypress Dr 11, Petaluma, CA 94954 USA	Taillie, PJ (reprint author), North Carolina State Univ, Dept Forestry & Environm Resources, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA.	pjtailli@ncsu.edu			7	7	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2018	JUN	9	6				2291	2291	18		GO4QP	CCC:000439997600014		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Tarbill, GLWhite, AMManley, PN	Tarbill, Gina L.; White, Angela M.; Manley, Patricia N.		The persistence of Black-backed Woodpeckers following delayed salvage logging in the Sierra Nevada	AVIAN CONSERVATION AND ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Black-backed Woodpecker, postfire, salvage logging, snag island, snag retention	MIXED-CONIFER FOREST, LAKE TAHOE BASIN, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, FIRE SEVERITY, BURNED FORESTS, SITE SELECTION, CALIFORNIA, WILDFIRE, MANAGEMENT, LANDSCAPE	The Black-backed Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus) is a snag-associated species that colonizes and utilizes patches of burned forests typically within 10 years of fire. Previous research has indicated that salvage logging, the removal of dead and dying trees from burned forests, has a negative effect on nesting densities of Black-backed Woodpeckers. One strategy proposed to ameliorate the impacts of dead tree removal on Black-backed Woodpeckers is to retain patches, or islands, of dense snags within the salvage matrix, but this approach remains largely untested. Following the Angora fire of South Lake Tahoe, CA several snag islands were retained within the larger salvage prescription to conserve habitat for Black-backed Woodpeckers and other snag-associated species. In this observational study, we evaluate whether these snag islands were effective at maintaining Black-backed Woodpecker populations following logging operations that covered 45% of the burned area. We systematically searched the postfire landscape for Black-backed Woodpecker nests for two years before and after salvage operations and compared nesting densities between logged and unlogged areas. Similar to other studies, we found that nest densities at the stand scale declined significantly in areas that were salvage logged, but Black-backed Woodpeckers did nest in both snag islands and in other peripheral unlogged areas, indicating that this approach may help balance habitat for wildlife with management needs at the scale of the fire. In this study, the removal of dead trees, which is usually implemented in the first two years following fire, did not occur until the fourth year, which may have also contributed to the persistence of Black-backed Woodpeckers postlogging.	[Tarbill, GL; White, AM; Manley, PN] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Washington, DC 20250 USA; [Tarbill, GL] Oak Ridge Inst Sci & Educ, Oak Ridge, TN USA; [Tarbill, GL] Univ Calif Davis, Davis, CA 95616 USA	Tarbill, GL (reprint author), 1731 Res Pk Dr, Davis, CA 95618 USA.	ginatarbill@fs.fed.us			3	3	RESILIENCE ALLIANCE	WOLFVILLE	ACADIA UNIV, BIOLOGY DEPT, WOLFVILLE, NS B0P 1X0, CANADA	http://www.resalliance.org	1712-6568		AVIAN CONSERV ECOL	Avian Conserv. Ecol.	2018	JUN	13	1				16	16	13		GN3IT	CCC:000438899000017		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Schulze, ED	Schulze, E. D.		Effects of forest management on biodiversity in temperate deciduous forests: An overview based on Central European beech forests	JOURNAL FOR NATURE CONSERVATION			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Forest management, Birds, Xylobionts, Saproxylic beetles, Forest plant species, Forest protection, Endangered forest species, Natura-2000 responsibility species	PLANT DIVERSITY, DEAD WOOD, PRODUCTIVITY, COMMUNITIES, RICHNESS, DYNAMICS, EXAMPLE, REGION, FLORA	This overview of relationships between biodiversity and management focuses on Central European Fagus forests. Present management and conservation activities are embedded in the geographic and historic background of Central European forest flora, including endangered, protected, and plant species for which Germany has taken special responsibility to ensure their future survival. Managed and unmanaged forests are compared with respect to plants and other organisms. Based on the floristic background, management for climate change and consequences of conservation on a global ecological footprint will be discussed.The Central European tree flora contains only about 7% of the tree diversity of East Asia. Only a few genera re-migrated to Central Europe after the Pleistocene, while others were lost during the Pleistocene, e.g. the genus Pseudotsuga.In this study the forest flora is characterized by specialized plant species that only grow in forests. These forest specialists contribute only 10% of the plant species of the total German flora. This fraction is even less (4-5%) for Romania which is generally regarded as a region with close to "natural" forest conditions. Also, the forest flora of Germany and Romania contains fewer apomictic and hybrid plant species than the non-forest flora. No forest plant species have gone extinct in Germany in the past 250 years, which is the time since the first floristic documentation of a plant species that was lost in Thuringia, despite intense forest use including changes in dominant tree species.With respect to the Natura 2000 goals of maintaining species diversity of Europe, the deciduous forest, as managed by rotation forestry, contain more protected and endangered species, and species for which Germany has taken responsibility than protected forest. Forests managed with permanent forest cover (so-called "management close-to-nature") contain fewer plant species than age-class (rotation) forestry. The abundance of dead wood-fungi and of soil bacteria is higher in rotation forest than in protected forests. For the initial phase of decay, a dead wood experiment identified two important tree species, Carpinus betulus and Picea abies, as the most preferred tree species for xylobionts. Carpinus has the most diverse fungal flora among all wood types and is a typical species for managed forests.The Natura 2000 habitat types were defined by plant species, but the assessment of ecosystem health is based on bird species in Central Europe. A time series extending from 1927 until 2015 indicates that most non-migratory forest bird species show an increasing abundance since 1970. Adding migrating and rare bird species populations resulted in constant average abundances since 1970. There is no evidence that sustainable forest management has led to decreased biodiversity in Central Europe. In view of climate change and increasing presence of tree diseases, Europe should avoid enlarging its ecological footprint by taking Central European forests out of management.	[Schulze, ED] Max Planck Inst Biogeochem, Box 100164, D-07701 Jena, Germany	Schulze, ED (reprint author), Max Planck Inst Biogeochem, Box 100164, D-07701 Jena, Germany.	dschulze@bgc-jena.mpg.de	Schulze, Ernst-Detlef/K-9627-2014		38	48	ELSEVIER GMBH	MUNICH	HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	1617-1381		J NAT CONSERV	J. Nat. Conserv.	2018	JUN	43					213	226	14		GK8JF	CCC:000436467400024					2019-04-10J	Jarvi, GMKnowlton, JLPhifer, CCRoth, AMWebster, CRFlaspohler, DJ	Jarvi, Gina M.; Knowlton, Jessie L.; Phifer, Colin C.; Roth, Amber M.; Webster, Christopher R.; Flaspohler, David J.		Avian Community Response to Short-rotation Aspen Forest Management	NORTHEASTERN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		BIRD SPECIES-DIVERSITY, TEMPERATE FOREST, SUCCESSION, ASSEMBLAGES, HARVEST, WESTERN, GROWTH, FIRE, AGE	In the upper midwestern US and parts of Canada, forests dominated by Populus tremuloides (Aspen) are increasingly being considered as a bioenergy feedstock for power plants. When used for bioenergy, these forests are harvested at much younger ages than when they are used for more traditional products, such as pulpwood and lumber. To better understand the potential consequences of a shift in shorter-rotation-harvest strategies on avian communities, we employed point counts to examine bird community composition in a chronosequence (10-45 y since harvest) of 12 coppiced, even-aged Aspen stands. Young (8-15 y old), middle (20-44 y old), and mature (45 y old) stands had no significant differences in species richness or relative abundance, but distinct avian community assemblages were associated with each stand-age class. Four bird species were significantly associated with a particular age class. Maintaining a wide range of Aspen stand-age classes in the landscape appears to be the best strategy for conserving a diverse bird community in this region.	[Jarvi, GM; Knowlton, JL; Phifer, CC; Webster, CR; Flaspohler, DJ] Michigan Technol Univ, Sch Forest Resources & Environm Sci, Houghton, MI 49931 USA; [Knowlton, JL] Wheaton Coll, Biol Dept, Norton, MA 02766 USA; [Roth, AM] Univ Maine, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Conservat Biol, Orono, ME 04469 USA; [Roth, AM] Univ Maine, Sch Forest Resources, Orono, ME 04469 USA	Jarvi, GM (reprint author), Michigan Technol Univ, Sch Forest Resources & Environm Sci, Houghton, MI 49931 USA.	gmtesta@mtu.edu			4	5	HUMBOLDT FIELD RESEARCH INST	STEUBEN	PO BOX 9, STEUBEN, ME 04680-0009 USA		1092-6194		NORTHEAST NAT	Northeast. Nat	2018	JUN	25	2				308	318	11		GK7UX	CCC:000436417100014					2019-04-10J	Xu, XXie, YJQi, KLuo, ZKWang, XR	Xu, Xi; Xie, Yujing; Qi, Ke; Luo, Zukui; Wang, Xiangrong		Detecting the response of bird communities and biodiversity to habitat loss and fragmentation due to urbanization	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bird diversity, Landscape change, Mean species abundance, Biodiversity accounting, Urbanization	ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, GLOBAL PATTERNS, URBAN, FOREST, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY, RICHNESS, INDICATORS, AVIFAUNA, WETLAND	Birds are considered a good model for indicators of biodiversity response to habitat variations, as they are very sensitive to environmental change. However, continuous observations of habitat alterations from undisturbed landscapes to human-dominated ones, as well as the associated effects on bird biodiversity, are lacking. In this study, New Jiangwan Town in Shanghai, China was selected to illustrate the response of bird species, and thus biodiversity, to habitat loss and fragmentation. land use/land cover (LULC) data and bird records from 2002 to 2013 were collected and analyzed. The results suggested that, due to urban sprawl, the area of wetland and shrub land had dropped by 82.4% and 87.3% by the end of 2013. Four different urbanization stages were identified in terms of the spatio-temporal variations in the landscape. To measure bird biodiversity, species richness and relative abundance were calculated, and they could account for the overall trend in biodiversity but might mask the process of species replacement. As an indicator of biodiversity accounting, the mean species abundance (MSA) of the original species would not include exotic or invasive species in its calculation, and its value decreased from 100% to 76.8% to 52.2% to 24.5% in the four corresponding stages. Finally, suggested by redundant analysis, the effects of habitat loss and fragmentation on bird biodiversity differed in various bird communities, and the area and connectivity of wetlands were the most significant variables. Our findings could provide important information to inform bird biodiversity protection and habitat restoration. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Xu, X; Xie, YJ; Qi, K; Wang, XR] Fudan Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Engn, 220 Handan Rd, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [Xu, X] Detao Grp, Inst Green Investment, 2200 Wenxiang Rd, Shanghai 201620, Peoples R China; [Luo, ZK] Kaili Univ, Sch Environm & Life Sci, Kaili 556011, Guizhou, Peoples R China	Wang, XR (reprint author), Fudan Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Engn, 220 Handan Rd, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China.	xuxi@detaoma.com; xieyj@fudan.edu.cn; xrxrwang@fudan.edu.cn			23	134	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0048-9697		SCI TOTAL ENVIRON	Sci. Total Environ.	2018	MAY	624					1561	1576	16		FX8PB	CCC:000426355900153	29929265				2019-04-10J	Garabedian, JEMoorman, CEPeterson, MNKilgo, JC	Garabedian, James E.; Moorman, Christopher E.; Peterson, M. Nils; Kilgo, John C.		Relative importance of social factors, conspecific density, and forest structure on space use by the endangered Red-cockaded Woodpecker: A new consideration for habitat restoration	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	behaviors, cavity trees, conspecific density, endangered species, LiDAR, multi-scale, Red-cockaded Woodpecker	POPULATION VIABILITY ANALYSIS, NATAL DISPERSAL DISTANCE, PICOIDES-BOREALIS, LONGLEAF PINE, HOME-RANGE, FORAGING HABITAT, SOUTH-CAROLINA, TRANSLOCATION STRATEGIES, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, SPECIES DISTRIBUTION	Understanding how the interplay between social behaviors and habitat structure influences space use is important for conservation of birds in restored habitat. We integrated fine-grained LiDAR-derived habitat data, spatial distribution of cavity trees, and spatially explicit behavioral observations in a multi-scale model to determine the relative importance of conspecific density, intraspecific interactions, and the distribution of cavities on space use by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) on 2 sites in South Carolina, USA. We evaluated candidate models using information theoretic methods. Top scale-specific models included effects of conspecific density and number of cavity tree starts within 200 m of Red-cockaded Woodpecker foraging locations, and effects of the number of intraspecific interactions within 400 m of Red-cockaded Woodpecker foraging locations. The top multi-scale model for 22 of 34 Red-cockaded Woodpecker groups included covariates for the number of groups within 200 m of foraging locations and LiDAR-derived habitat with moderate densities of large pines (Pinus spp.) and minimal hardwood overstory. These results indicate distribution of neighboring groups was the most important predictor of space use once a minimal set of structural habitat thresholds was reached, and that placing recruitment clusters as little as 400 m from foraging partitions of neighboring groups may promote establishment of new breeding groups in unoccupied habitat. The presence of neighboring groups likely provides cues to foraging Red-cockaded Woodpeckers that facilitate prospecting prior to juvenile dispersal and, to a lesser extent, indicates high-quality forage resources. Careful consideration of local distribution of neighboring groups in potential habitat may improve managers' ability to increase Red-cockaded Woodpecker density on restored landscapes and mitigate isolation of Red-cockaded Woodpecker groups, a problem that negatively affects fitness across the species' range.	[Garabedian, JE; Moorman, CE; Peterson, MN] North Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Kilgo, JC] USDA Forest Serv, Southern Res Stn, Savannah River, New Ellenton, SC USA	Garabedian, JE (reprint author), North Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA.	jegarabe@ncsu.edu			11	24	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2018	MAY	120	2				305	318	14		GG1WR	CCC:000432479400004					2019-04-10J	Salgueiro, PAMira, ARabaca, JESantos, SM	Salgueiro, Pedro A.; Mira, Antonio; Rabaca, Joao E.; Santos, Sara M.		Identifying critical thresholds to guide management practices in agroecosystems: Insights from bird community response to an open grassland-to-forest gradient	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Ecological thresholds, Bird community, Turnover patterns, Tree canopy cover gradient, Agroecosystems, Variegated landscape, Huisman-Olff-Fresco models	AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, ECOLOGICAL THRESHOLDS, MULTIMODEL INFERENCE, MODEL SELECTION, HABITAT LOSS, LAND-USE, LANDSCAPE, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, FRAGMENTATION	Landscapes are showing increased fragmentation and habitat loss due to land-use conversion and intensification, leading to species-poor and homogeneous communities. The identification of ecological thresholds above which major changes in community composition take place, may prevent the critical downfall of biodiversity while improving the effectiveness of conservation, resource management and restoration practices. In this study, we provide a new insight on how species distribute along a highly variegated agro-ecosystem in the Mediterranean region. We aim to define the thresholds of occurrence of a bird community inhabiting a tree canopy gradient, and determine the patterns of community change. We fit Huisman-Olff-Fresco models to bird occurrence data (assuming non-linear responses) to identify species-specific responses to the gradient, species richness, and turnover patterns. The tree canopy gradient is responsible for major changes in bird community likely related to the variation of the tree stratum and canopy enclosure which reflect different niche segregation opportunities. Maximum species richness was reached at 10% canopy cover while total turnover rate was higher than expected from a null model up to 10% canopy cover. Ecological thresholds can be used as indicators of specific resource limits responsible for changes in community composition and species occurrence, identifying where populations may be more sensitive. Choosing a single management scheme will invariably result in winners and losers, but optimal levels of management can be explored in order to maximize species diversity across Mediterranean agroecosystems.	[Salgueiro, PA; Mira, A; Santos, SM] UBC Conservat Biol Lab, Evora, Portugal; [Salgueiro, PA; Mira, A; Santos, SM] CIBIO UE Res Ctr Blodivers & Genet Resources, Pole Evora Res Grp Appl Ecol, Evora, Portugal; [Salgueiro, PA; Rabaca, JE] LabOr Lab Ornithol, Evora, Portugal; [Rabaca, JE] ICAAM Inst Mediterranean Agr & Environm Sci, Evora, Portugal; [Salgueiro, PA; Mira, A; Rabaca, JE; Santos, SM] Univ Evora, Dept Biol, P-7002554 Evora, Portugal	Salgueiro, PA (reprint author), UBC Conservat Biol Lab, Evora, Portugal.	pas@uevora.pt; amira@uevora.pt; jrabaca@uevora.pt; smsantos@uevora.pt	Santos, Sara/; Mira, Antonio/E-5715-2010	Santos, Sara/0000-0003-4931-1080; Mira, Antonio/0000-0001-6152-0454	6	16	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2018	MAY	88					205	213	9		GD8KH	CCC:000430760800022					2019-04-10J	Helms, JAWoerner, CRFawzi, NIMacDonald, AJuliansyahPohnan, EWebb, K	Helms, Jackson A.; Woerner, Christopher R.; Fawzi, Nurul, I; MacDonald, Andrew; Juliansyah; Pohnan, Erica; Webb, Kinari		Rapid Response of Bird Communities to Small-Scale Reforestation in Indonesian Borneo	TROPICAL CONSERVATION SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biodiversity hotspots, deforestation, ecological succession, fire, Imperata cylindrica, restoration ecology, species-area relationship	RAIN-FOREST, WEST KALIMANTAN, BIODIVERSITY, DEFORESTATION, AFFORESTATION, CONSERVATION, AREA	The island of Borneo suffers from one of the highest deforestation rates in the world, primarily due to agriculture, logging, and other human activities. This habitat loss may be partly mitigated by reforestation programs in degraded landscapes, especially anthropogenic grasslands that have little conservation or economic value. By monitoring native bird communities, we evaluated the success of two small (<20 ha) community reforestation projects in Gunung Palung National Park in Indonesian Borneo. Birds responded rapidly following reforestation, with species richness doubling over 7 years at one site, and increasing by 29% in just 3 years at the other Final tallies (63-70 species per site) were comparable to those obtained in older secondary forests elsewhere in Borneo. Anthropogenic fire is the primary threat to reforestation success, but intensive fire prevention allows bird communities to recover from temporary setbacks. Absence of fire was thus the most important factor in recovery, and we detected no effect of replanted area on bird species richness. Our results suggest that by engaging local communities and ensuring long-term maintenance, even small reforestation sites in Borneo can provide immediate benefits for native biodiversity.	[Helms, JA] Michigan State Univ, WK Kellogg Biol Stn, 3700 E Gull Lake Dr, Hickory Corners, MI 49060 USA; [Helms, JA; Fawzi, NI; Juliansyah; Pohnan, E; Webb, K] Alam Sehat Lestari, Sukadana, Kalimantan Bara, Indonesia; [MacDonald, A] Univ Paul Sabatier, CNRS, Toulouse, France; [Webb, K] Hlth Harmony, Portland, OR USA	Helms, JA (reprint author), Michigan State Univ, WK Kellogg Biol Stn, 3700 E Gull Lake Dr, Hickory Corners, MI 49060 USA.	jacksonhelmsiv@gmail.com			5	7	SAGE PUBLICATIONS INC	THOUSAND OAKS	2455 TELLER RD, THOUSAND OAKS, CA 91320 USA	http://www.sagepub.co.uk	1940-0829		TROP CONSERV SCI	Trop. Conserv. Sci.	2018	APR	11					NIL_1	NIL_8	8		GL8VZ	CCC:000437507600001		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Lacko, JTopercer, JSul'ovsky, M	Lacko, Jozef; Topercer, Jan; Sul'ovsky, Marek		How disturbances and management practices affect bird communities in a Carpathian river ecosystem?	ACTA OECOLOGICA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bird-habitat interactions, Disturbances, Environmental heterogeneity, Longitudinal and lateral linkages, Land use, Management practices	SPECIES-DIVERSITY, LAND-USE, AVIAN COMMUNITIES, HABITAT SELECTION, RIPARIAN FOREST, FLOW REGULATION, BREEDING BIRDS, SPATIAL SCALE, FRAGMENTATION, CONSERVATION	We studied how interactions between disturbances, succession, human alterations and other habitat and landscape attributes affect bird community patterns in a lower reach of a large West Carpathian river Vah with complex disturbance and alteration histories. Breeding-bird communities, their habitats (54 variables) and surrounding landscapes (11 metrics) were sampled using standardized point counts with limited distances at 40 riparian sites divided among two transects along a 12.9 km river stretch. The most frequent and abundant birds were generalists typically associated with forest edge habitats, such as Parus major, Sylvia atTicapilla, Fringilla coelebs, Oriolus oriolus, Phylloscopus collybita, Sturnus vulgaris, Turdus merula and Luscinia megarhynchos. Abundances show significant increase at the lower transect responding apparently to greater size and heterogeneity of riparian habitats and more abundant food supply linked to more diverse and intense human influences in a suburban zone. Both indirect (NMDS) and direct ordination (CCA) revealed remarkably large number of evenly important factors underlying riparian bird-habitat interactions. It suggests considerable environmental heterogeneity and complexity of these interactions as a likely outcome of long and complex disturbance and alteration histories of the area. Yet structure and relative importance of first two gradients (longitudinal and lateral linkages) remains simple and stable, complying well with predictions of river continuum concept and stream ecosystem theory. Of the nine statistically significant variables most strongly correlated with first two CCA axes, percentages of Helianthus tuberosus, footpaths, fields, Calystegia sepium and steep banks uphold our hypotheses predicting significant effects of invasive species, visitor disturbances, agricultural land use and unaltered river banks/bed on bird community composition and structure. A small but significant contribution of patch size standard deviation within a 150 m radius to the CCA model provides the sole evidence for a hypothesized effect of adjacent terrestrial landscapes on riparian bird communities over different scales of patch size variability. Percentages of fields, invasive species and vertical banks along with average tree diameter were also the most productive predictors across our generalized linear models of riparian bird species diversity, evenness and abundance. Adopting an integrated river basin management, maintaining or restoring both longitudinal and lateral connectivity, taking advantage of natural processes and traditional management practices to maintain or restore riverine biodiversity can be recommended by our data in support of more systematic and evidence-based decision-making.	[Lacko, J] Comenius Univ, Fac Nat Sci, Dept Ecol, Ilkovicova 6, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia; [Topercer, J] Comenius Univ, Detached Unit Blatnica, Bot Garden, SK-03815 Blatnica 315, Slovakia; [Sul'ovsky, M] Comenius Univ, Fac Nat Sci, Dept Phys Geog & Geoecol, Ilkovicova 6, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia	Lacko, J (reprint author), Comenius Univ, Fac Nat Sci, Dept Ecol, Ilkovicova 6, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia.	jozef.lacko217@gmail.com			10	21	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1146-609X		ACTA OECOL	Acta Oecol.-Int. J. Ecol.	2018	APR	88					29	40	12		GG5WE	CCC:000432765600004					2019-04-10J	Hilbers, JPHoondert, RPJSchipper, AMHuijbregts, MAJ	Hilbers, Jelle P.; Hoondert, Renske P. J.; Schipper, Aafke M.; Huijbregts, Mark A. J.		Using field data to quantify chemical impacts on wildlife population viability	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bald Eagle, birds of prey, conservation biology, critical patch size, DDE, extinction risk, Osprey, pollutants, population viability analysis, toxicants, White-tailed Eagle, wildlife	EAGLE HALIAEETUS-ALBICILLA, ECOLOGICAL RISK-ASSESSMENT, OSPREY EGGS, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, EXTINCTION RISK, BALD EAGLES, BIRD POPULATIONS, GREAT-LAKES, PESTICIDES, PRODUCTIVITY	Environmental pollution is an important driver of biodiversity loss. Yet, to date, the effects of chemical exposure on wildlife populations have been quantified for only a few species, mainly due to a lack of appropriate laboratory data to quantify chemical impacts on vital rates. In this study, we developed a method to quantify the effects of toxicant exposure on wildlife population persistence based on field monitoring data. We established field-based vital-rate-response functions for toxicants, using quantile regression to correct for the influences of confounding factors on the vital rates observed, and combined the response curves with population viability modelling. We then applied the method to quantify the impact of DDE on three bird species: the White-tailed Eagle, Bald Eagle, and Osprey. Population viability was expressed via five population extinction vulnerability metrics: population growth rate (r(1)), critical patch size (CPS), minimum viable population size (MVP), probability of population extirpation (PE), and median time to population extirpation (MTE). We found that past DDE exposure concentrations increased population extirpation vulnerabilities of all three bird species. For example, at DDE concentrations of 25mg/kg wet mass of egg (the maximum historic exposure concentration reported in literature for the Osprey), r(1) became small (White-tailed Eagle and Osprey) or close to zero (Bald Eagle), the CPS increased up to almost the size of Connecticut (White-tailed Eagle and Osprey) or West Virginia (Bald Eagle), the MVP increased up to approximately 90 (White-tailed Eagle and Osprey) or 180 breeding pairs (Bald Eagle), the PE increased up to almost certain extirpation (Bald Eagle) or only slightly elevated levels (White-tailed Eagle and Osprey) and the MTE became within decades (Bald Eagle) or remained longer than a millennium (White-tailed Eagle and Osprey). Our study provides a method to derive species-specific field-based response curves of toxicant exposure, which can be used to assess population extinction vulnerabilities and obtain critical levels of toxicant exposure based on maximum permissible effect levels. This may help conservation managers to better design appropriate habitat restoration and population recovery measures, such as reducing toxicant levels, increasing the area of suitable habitat or reintroducing individuals.	[Hilbers, JP; Hoondert, RPJ; Schipper, AM; Huijbregts, MAJ] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Fac Sci, Inst Wetland & Water Res, Dept Environm Sci, POB 9010, NL-6500 GL Nijmegen, Netherlands	Hilbers, JP (reprint author), Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Fac Sci, Inst Wetland & Water Res, Dept Environm Sci, POB 9010, NL-6500 GL Nijmegen, Netherlands.	j.hilbers@science.ru.nl	Huijbregts, Mark/B-8971-2011; Schipper, Aafke/C-2758-2011; Hilbers, Jelle/	Huijbregts, Mark/0000-0002-7037-680X; Hilbers, Jelle/0000-0002-9401-589X	6	14	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2018	APR	28	3				771	785	15		GD4IH	CCC:000430466300014	29336512	Other Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Santin-Montanya, MIPena, CCQuesada, EZJimenez, FJSPasamon, JLT	Santin-Montanya, M. I.; Casanova Pena, C.; Zambrana Quesada, E.; Sanchez Jimenez, F. J.; Tenorio Pasamon, J. L.		Arable weed species associated with soil tillage systems under Mediterranean conditions	LAND DEGRADATION & DEVELOPMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	agro-ecosystems, classification analysis regression tree, climatic conditions, short term, weed community	CROP-ROTATION, CONSERVATION-TILLAGE, AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, MANAGEMENT-PRACTICES, WINTER-WHEAT, COMMUNITIES, FLORA, DYNAMICS, SEEDBANKS	Tillage soil erosion is seen as a great problem in the Mediterranean region and is worsened by the climatic conditions. Previous studies have shown a decrease in biodiversity in arable lands across Europe. Weeds are a major component of biodiversity within agro-ecosystems, but few studies have aimed to associate weed species with soil tillage intensity. We performed an analysis to test the potential short-term effects of different tillage systems on weed species under our study conditions. The emerged weed data were measured, comparing a conventional tillage system with conservational tillage systems (minimum tillage and no tillage) in 2 cropping systems (monoculture wheat and a rotation scheme of barley-legume-wheat-fallow). Compared with the tilled soil, higher weed density and weed species richness were observed in the conservation tillage plots. The weed density and weed species richness in the monoculture system were higher compared with those in the crop rotation system. We used classification and regression trees to analyze the relationship between the soil tillage systems and the weed community, taking into account the climatic conditions. The results indicate that different soil tillage systems produced tree models: Silene vulgaris (L.) was associated with the MT system and high and irregularly distributed rainfall; Hypecoum imberbe Sm. and Hypecoum procumbens (L.) were linked to MT plots with low and well-distributed precipitation rates; and Cardaria draba (L.) was present all years independently of climatic conditions but was never found in the NT system, so its presence could be regarded as an indicator of tillage intensity.	[Santin-Montanya, MI] Inst Nacl Invest Agr & Alimentaria INIA, Dept Crop Protect, Ctra Coruna,Km 7-5, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Pena, CC; Quesada, EZ; Jimenez, FJS; Pasamon, JLT] Inst Nacl Invest Agr & Alimentaria INIA, Dept Environm Sci, Ctra Coruna,Km 7-5, Madrid 28040, Spain	Santin-Montanya, MI (reprint author), Inst Nacl Invest Agr & Alimentaria INIA, Dept Crop Protect, Ctra Coruna,Km 7-5, Madrid 28040, Spain.	isantin@inia.es		M. I., Santin-Montanya/0000-0003-1978-6560	4	24	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1085-3278		LAND DEGRAD DEV	Land Degrad. Dev.	2018	APR	29	4				865	874	10		GC9OD	CCC:000430126700001					2019-04-10J	Lindtner, PUjhazy, KSvitok, MKubovcik, V	Lindtner, Peter; Ujhazy, Karol; Svitok, Marek; Kubovcik, Vladimir		The European ground squirrel increases diversity and structural complexity of grasslands in the Western Carpathians	MAMMAL RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Spermophilus citellus, European souslik, Impact on vegetation, Ecosystem engineering, Plant communities	PLANT COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, DESERT GRASSLAND, PRAIRIE DOGS, CYNOMYS-LUDOVICIANUS, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, ECOSYSTEM ENGINEERS, KANGAROO RATS, CONSERVATION, DISTURBANCE, MAMMALS	Disturbances are important natural factors affecting biological diversity, community composition, and ecosystem structure. The European ground squirrel is a semi-fossorial organism, and through disturbances caused by burrowing activities, it can play an important role as an ecosystem engineer of grasslands in central and south-eastern Europe. The aim of this study was to assess the response of grassland vegetation to disturbances by the European ground squirrel. We conducted a pairwise survey within a 1-ha study site with homogenous environmental conditions. We compared the vegetation characteristics of 2 x 2-m plots placed on 30 mounds, with paired control plots situated at a distance of 10 m from each mound. The results showed that plots disturbed by the European ground squirrel achieved a higher species richness and diversity and a distinct species composition compared to the undisturbed control plots. Vertical structure of vegetation was also significantly different with a higher proportion of the high and medium vegetation layers on the mounds. Shifts in the composition of plant life forms and life strategies were reflected by the reduction of graminoids and plant competitors, and support of forbs on the mounds. These findings suggest that the European ground squirrel helps to maintain heterogeneity in grassland ecosystems and creates patches of higher diversity and higher structural complexity in the relatively homogenous grassland vegetation of the Western Carpathians.	[Lindtner, P; Svitok, M; Kubovcik, V] Tech Univ Zvolen, Fac Ecol & Environm Sci, Dept Biol & Gen Ecol, TG Masaryka 2117-24, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia; [Ujhazy, K] Tech Univ Zvolen, Dept Phytol, Fac Forestry, TG Masaryka 2117-24, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia	Lindtner, P (reprint author), Tech Univ Zvolen, Fac Ecol & Environm Sci, Dept Biol & Gen Ecol, TG Masaryka 2117-24, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia.	peter.lindtner1@gmail.com	Svitok, Marek/A-4843-2013; Ujhazy, Karol/; Lindtner, Peter/	Svitok, Marek/0000-0003-2710-8102; Ujhazy, Karol/0000-0002-0228-1737; Lindtner, Peter/0000-0002-1524-9154	3	8	SPRINGER HEIDELBERG	HEIDELBERG	TIERGARTENSTRASSE 17, D-69121 HEIDELBERG, GERMANY	http://www.springer.com	2199-2401		MAMMAL RES	Mammal Res.	2018	APR	63	2				223	229	7		FZ3VO	CCC:000427518900010					2019-04-10J	Smith, PL	Smith, Paul L.		Copying ancient woodlands: a positive perspective	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	'Facsimile', Woodland creation, Aichi, Biodiversity cascade	CLIMATE-CHANGE, SPECIES CONSERVATION, BOREAL FORESTS, RESTORATION, HABITAT, FRAGMENTATION, INOCULATION, ECOSYSTEMS, DIVERSITY, ECOLOGY	The Convention on Biological Diversity's Aichi Target 15 requires global restoration of degraded ecosystems including complex examples. A case is made for the deliberate creation of woodlands with ancient characteristics. In the temperate biome, efforts to restore such communities will be accelerated by intervention facilitating natural succession. Negative rhetoric regarding the irreplaceability of ancient communities may hinder such considerations. Some facets of ancient woods are irreplaceable and their destruction is discouraged. Nevertheless, as human population and impact increase, this resource will degrade. Though understanding of many ecological processes is incomplete, ecological restoration requires proactivity. Physicians need not fully understand the healing process to rely upon it and, fortunately, ecology carries similar intangible reliables; natural succession occurs and complex communities actively self-assemble. Accepting this, then woodland with many characteristics of ancientness can be deliberately created. Thermodynamic principles may assist and seeking to initiate a biodiversity cascade is proposed as a pragmatic approach. The intricacy that defines ancient woodland might thus be assembled in timescales of less than a century. Ascension Island's anthropogenic cloud forest provides a precedent. For utilitarian purposes, human-mediated plant dispersal (deliveries of plants to the island), led to the transformation of species-poor, fern-dominated hillsides to species-rich cloud forest in about 100 years. How much more could be achieved with appropriate ecological intention?.	[Smith, PL] Univ Bristol, Dept Civil Engn, Fac Engn, Queens Bldg, Bristol BS8 1TR, Avon, England	Smith, PL (reprint author), Univ Bristol, Dept Civil Engn, Fac Engn, Queens Bldg, Bristol BS8 1TR, Avon, England.	paullistersmith@btconnect.com			12	32	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2018	APR	27	5				1041	1053	13		FY4EW	CCC:000426775900001					2019-04-10J	Wakelin, JOellermann, CGWilson, ALDowns, CTHill, T	Wakelin, James; Oellermann, Carl G.; Wilson, Amy-Leigh; Downs, Colleen T.; Hill, Trevor		Habitat use by the critically endangered Blue S allow in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa	BOTHALIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences		HIRUNDO-ATROCAERULEA SUNDEVALL, FRAGMENTATION, CONSEQUENCES, POPULATIONS, DYNAMICS, BIOMASS, DENSITY, SPACE, FIRE	Background: Habitat loss and fragmentation continue to threaten the survival of many species. One such species is the Blue Swallow Hirundo atrocaerulea, a critically endangered grassland specialist bird species endemic to sub-Saharan Africa.Objectives: Past research has shown a serious decline in range and abundance of this species, predominantly because of habitat transformation and fragmentation.Method: The influence of land cover on Blue Swallow habitat and foraging home range, in both natural and transformed habitats, was investigated by radio tracking adult birds.Results: Results showed that tracked birds spent over 80% of their forage time over grasslands and wetland habitats, and preferentially used these ecotones as forage zones. This is likely owing to an increase in insect mass and abundance in these habitats and ecotones. There was reduced selection and avoidance of transformed habitats such as agricultural land, and this is a concern as transformed land comprised 71% of the home range with only 29% of grassland and wetland mosaic remaining for the Blue Swallows to breed and forage in, highlighting the importance of ecotones as a key habitat requirement. The results indicate that management plans for the conservation of Blue Swallows must consider protecting and conserving natural habitats and maintaining mosaic of grassland and wetland components to maximise ecotones within conserved areas.Conclusion: To this end, the stewardship programme spearheaded by local conservation agencies, which aims to formally conserve privately owned patches of untransformed grassland and other natural habitats, may have a strong impact on the long-term persistence of Blue Swallow populations.	[Wakelin, J; Downs, CT; Hill, T] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Agr Earth & Environm Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Oellermann, CG] Sustainable Forestry Management Africa, Gauteng, South Africa; [Wilson, AL] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, Durban, South Africa	Downs, CT (reprint author), Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Agr Earth & Environm Sci, Durban, South Africa.	downs@ukzn.ac.za	Hill, Trevor/Q-7574-2017; Hill, Trevor/F-3756-2010	Hill, Trevor/0000-0001-7015-6906; 	1	1	AOSIS	CAPE TOWN	POSTNET SUITE 55, PRIVATE BAG X22, TYGERVALLEY, CAPE TOWN, 00000, SOUTH AFRICA		0006-8241		BOTHALIA	Bothalia	2018	MAR	48	1				A2173	A2173	9		GM5XX	CCC:000438223700001		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Seifert, NTegetmeyer, COrnes, AS	Seifert, Nina; Tegetmeyer, Cosima; Ornes, Angela Schmitz		Habitat selection, home range and population size of Baillon's Crake Zapornia pusilla in the Senegal Delta, north-west Senegal	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		RALLUS-AQUATICUS, PORZANA-PUSILLA, CLAPPER RAILS, DENSITY, MOVEMENTS, BIRDS, AVAILABILITY, STRATEGIES, ABUNDANCE, PATTERNS	Knowledge of a species' ecological requirements is a prerequisite for effective conservation, particularly if the species is assumed to be declining due to modification of its primary habitats. Information about habitat suitability allows both the inference of specific habitat management measures as well as population size estimates which can facilitate the setting up of conservation priorities. As one of the least known Palaearctic breeding birds, the current knowledge of Baillon's Crake Zapornia pusilla comprises only very general information about the species' ecological requirements, habitat selection, extent and dynamics of home ranges or population densities within its Palaearctic-Afrotropical range. We used a multi-scale approach to assess the species' habitat requirements in the Senegal River Delta, north-west Senegal. At the individual level, we calculated Manly selection indices for 17 radio-tracked Baillon's Crakes, allowing for different levels of resource availability. Considering the entire Djoudj area including the Parc National des Oiseaux du Djoudj (PNOD), we modelled presence probability as well as population density of Baillon's Crakes based on high-resolution satellite images and capture data from field surveys in 2009-2013. Using 95% kernels, home range size was on average 1.77 +/- 0.86 ha with significant differences between habitats. Both at the individual as well as population level, Baillon's Crakes preferred edge structures, selecting for trampling paths and edges along open water bodies as well as boundaries of specific vegetation stands while species composition was of less importance. Based on the regression models, we identified 9,516 ha of suitable habitat within the Djoudj area and a potential population size of 10,714 individuals (range 3,146-17,408). Although global population estimates are highly tentative, we assume the Senegal River Delta and the PNOD of outstanding significance for African and possibly also European populations of Baillon's Crake.	[Seifert, N; Ornes, AS] Ernst Moritz Arndt Univ Greifswald, Vogelwarte Hiddensee, Zool Inst & Museum, Soldmannstr 23, D-17489 Greifswald, Germany; [Seifert, N; Ornes, AS] Michael Succow Fdn Protect Nat, Ellernholzstr 1-3, D-17489 Greifswald, Germany; [Tegetmeyer, C] Ernst Moritz Arndt Univ Greifswald, Inst Bot & Landscape Ecol, Soldmannstr 15, D-17489 Greifswald, Germany	Seifert, N (reprint author), Ernst Moritz Arndt Univ Greifswald, Vogelwarte Hiddensee, Zool Inst & Museum, Soldmannstr 23, D-17489 Greifswald, Germany.; Seifert, N (reprint author), Michael Succow Fdn Protect Nat, Ellernholzstr 1-3, D-17489 Greifswald, Germany.	nam.seifert@googlemail.com			4	10	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2018	MAR	28	1				38	58	21		FY2QN	CCC:000426660700003					2019-04-10J	Saarinen, NVastaranta, MNasi, RRosnell, THakala, THonkavaara, EWulder, MALuoma, VTommaselli, AMGImai, NNRibeiro, EAWGuimaraes, RBHolopainen, MHyyppa, J	Saarinen, Ninni; Vastaranta, Mikko; Nasi, Roope; Rosnell, Tomi; Hakala, Teemu; Honkavaara, Eija; Wulder, Michael A.; Luoma, Ville; Tommaselli, Antonio M. G.; Imai, Nilton N.; Ribeiro, Eduardo A. W.; Guimaraes, Raul B.; Holopainen, Markus; Hyyppa, Juha		Assessing Biodiversity in Boreal Forests with UAV-Based Photogrammetric Point Clouds and Hyperspectral Imaging	REMOTE SENSING			English	Article	Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences (PCES)	EARTH SCIENCES	Physical Sciences - Other Topics	UAS, photogrammetry, remote sensing, structural diversity, size variability, dead wood, old growth, tree species, 3D, spectral	UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES, LASER-SCANNING DATA, REMOTE-SENSING DATA, STAND STRUCTURAL DIVERSITY, COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, AIRBORNE LIDAR, BIOMASS EQUATIONS, COMPUTER VISION, CANOPY GAPS, TREE-LEVEL	Forests are the most diverse terrestrial ecosystems and their biological diversity includes trees, but also other plants, animals, and micro-organisms. One-third of the forested land is in boreal zone; therefore, changes in biological diversity in boreal forests can shape biodiversity, even at global scale. Several forest attributes, including size variability, amount of dead wood, and tree species richness, can be applied in assessing biodiversity of a forest ecosystem. Remote sensing offers complimentary tool for traditional field measurements in mapping and monitoring forest biodiversity. Recent development of small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) enable the detailed characterization of forest ecosystems through providing data with high spatial but also temporal resolution at reasonable costs. The objective here is to deepen the knowledge about assessment of plot-level biodiversity indicators in boreal forests with hyperspectral imagery and photogrammetric point clouds from a UAV. We applied individual tree crown approach (ITC) and semi-individual tree crown approach (semi-ITC) in estimating plot-level biodiversity indicators. Structural metrics from the photogrammetric point clouds were used together with either spectral features or vegetation indices derived from hyperspectral imagery. Biodiversity indicators like the amount of dead wood and species richness were mainly underestimated with UAV-based hyperspectral imagery and photogrammetric point clouds. Indicators of structural variability (i.e., standard deviation in diameter-at-breast height and tree height) were the most accurately estimated biodiversity indicators with relative RMSE between 24.4% and 29.3% with semi-ITC. The largest relative errors occurred for predicting deciduous trees (especially aspen and alder), partly due to their small amount within the study area. Thus, especially the structural diversity was reliably predicted by integrating the three-dimensional and spectral datasets of UAV-based point clouds and hyperspectral imaging, and can therefore be further utilized in ecological studies, such as biodiversity monitoring.	[Saarinen, N; Vastaranta, M; Luoma, V; Holopainen, M] Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, POB 27, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Vastaranta, M] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, POB 111, Joensuu 80101, Finland; [Nasi, R; Rosnell, T; Hakala, T; Honkavaara, E; Hyyppa, J] Natl Land Survey, Finnish Geospatial Res Inst, Dept Remote Sensing & Photogrammetry, Geodeetinrinne 2, Masala 02431, Finland; [Wulder, MA] Nat Resources Canada, Pacific Forestry Ctr, Canadian Forest Serv, 506 West Burnside Rd, Victoria, BC V8Z 1M5, Canada; [Tommaselli, AMG; Imai, NN; Guimaraes, RB] Sao Paulo State Univ, Dept Cartog, Roberto Simonsen 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Ribeiro, EAW] Catarinense Fed Inst, Rodovia Duque de Caxias,Km 6 S-N, BR-89240000 Sao Francisco Do Sul, Brazil	Saarinen, N (reprint author), Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, POB 27, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland.	ninni.saarinen@helsinki.fi; mikko.vastaranta@uef.fi; roope.nasi@nls.fi; tomi.rosnell@nls.fi; teemu.hakala@nls.fi; eija.honkavaara@nls.fi; mike.wulder@canada.ca; ville.luoma@helsinki.fi; tomaseli@fct.unesp.br; nnimai@fct.unesp.br; eduwerneck@gmail.com; raul@fct.unesp.br; markus.holopainen@helsinki.fi; juha.hyyppa@nls.fi	Vastaranta, Mikko/K-9656-2018; Tommaselli, Antonio/D-1739-2012; Honkavaara, Eija/; Saarinen, Ninni/; Wulder, Michael/J-5597-2016; Imai, Nilton/O-8909-2018; Werneck Ribeiro, Eduardo Augusto/G-8763-2012; Nasi, Roope/; Luoma, Ville/	Vastaranta, Mikko/0000-0001-6552-9122; Tommaselli, Antonio/0000-0003-0483-1103; Honkavaara, Eija/0000-0002-7236-2145; Saarinen, Ninni/0000-0003-2730-8892; Wulder, Michael/0000-0002-6942-1896; Imai, Nilton/0000-0003-0516-0567; Werneck Ribeiro, Eduardo Augusto/0000-0003-3313-6783; Nasi, Roope/0000-0002-5823-8180; Luoma, Ville/0000-0002-9036-8591	9	39	MDPI	BASEL	ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND	http://www.mdpi.com	2072-4292		REMOTE SENS-BASEL	Remote Sens.	2018	FEB	10	2				338	338	22		FZ4DT	CCC:000427542100182		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Stevens, KHarrisson, KAHogan, FECooke, RClarke, RH	Stevens, Kate; Harrisson, Katherine A.; Hogan, Fiona E.; Cooke, Raylene; Clarke, Rohan H.		Reduced gene flow in a vulnerable species reflects two centuries of habitat loss and fragmentation	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	ancestry, bottleneck, functional connectivity, region, subpopulation	GREY-CROWNED BABBLER, RECENT POPULATION BOTTLENECKS, SEX-BIASED DISPERSAL, FUNCTIONAL CONNECTIVITY, MIGRATION RATES, MULTILOCUS GENOTYPES, COOPERATIVE-BREEDER, WOODLAND BIRDS, PATCH SIZE, LANDSCAPE	Understanding the effects of landscape modification on gene flow of fauna is central to informing conservation strategies that promote functional landscape connectivity and population persistence. We explored the effects of large-scale habitat loss and fragmentation on spatial and temporal patterns of gene flow in a threatened Australian woodland bird: the Grey-crowned Babbler Pomatostomus temporalis. Using microsatellite data, we (1) investigated historical (i.e., pre-fragmentation) and contemporary (i.e., postfragmentation) levels of gene flow among subpopulations and/or regions, (2) identified first-generation migrants and likely dispersal events, (3) tested for signatures of genetic bottlenecks, (4) estimated contemporary and historical effective population sizes, and (5) explored the relative influences of drift and migration in shaping contemporary population structure. Results indicated that the functional connectivity of landscapes used by the Grey-crowned Babbler is severely compromised in the study area. The proportion of individuals that were recent immigrants among all subpopulations were low. Habitat fragmentation has led to a clear division between subpopulations in the east and west, and the patterns of gene flow exchange between these two regions have changed over time. The effective population size estimates for these two regions are now well below that required for long-term population viability (N-e<100). Demographic history models indicate that genetic drift was a greater influence on subpopulations than gene flow, and most subpopulations show signatures of bottlenecks. Translocations to promote gene flow and boost genetic diversity in the short term and targeted habitat restoration to improve landscape functional connectivity in the long term represent promising conservation management strategies that will likely have benefits for many other woodland bird species.	[Stevens, K; Cooke, R] Deakin Univ, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Ctr Integrat Ecol, Geelong, Vic 3220, Australia; [Harrisson, KA; Clarke, RH] Monash Univ, Sch Biol Sci, Melbourne, Vic 3168, Australia; [Harrisson, KA] La Trobe Univ, Sch Life Sci, Dept Ecol Environm & Evolut, Bundoora, Vic 3083, Australia; [Harrisson, KA] Arthur Rylah Inst Environm Res, Heidelberg, Vic 3084, Australia; [Hogan, FE] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Appl & Biomed Sci, Churchill, Vic 3842, Australia	Cooke, R (reprint author), Deakin Univ, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Ctr Integrat Ecol, Geelong, Vic 3220, Australia.	raylene.cooke@deakin.edu.au			2	9	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2018	FEB	9	2				2114	2114	15		FY8CT	CCC:000427091200029		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Garcia-Salgado, GRebollo, SPerez-Camacho, LMartinez-Hesterkamp, SDe la Montana, EDomingo-Munoz, RMadrigal-Gonzalez, JFernandez-Pereira, JM	Garcia-Salgado, G.; Rebollo, S.; Perez-Camacho, L.; Martinez-Hesterkamp, S.; De la Montana, E.; Domingo-Munoz, R.; Madrigal-Gonzalez, J.; Fernandez-Pereira, J. M.		Breeding habitat preferences and reproductive success of Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) in exotic Eucalyptus plantations in southwestern Europe	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biodiversity surrogate, Density trap, Mature plantation, Raptor, Smallholding forestry, Territoriality	MIXED-EFFECTS MODELS, BUZZARD BUTEO-BUTEO, NESTING HABITAT, TOP PREDATORS, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, FOREST MANAGEMENT, HUNTING BEHAVIOR, PLANTED FORESTS, SELECTION, AVAILABILITY	With ongoing degradation of natural forests and spread of forest plantations, plantations must play an increasingly important role in biodiversity conservation. Study of habitat selection and reproductive success of surrogate species in plantations can guide forest management decisions for increasing biodiversity. In this paper we studied the suitability of exotic Eucalyptus plantations managed at low intensity in northwestern Spain as breeding habitat for Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis), a top predator frequently considered a surrogate species in conservation.Goshawks showed high breeding density, high reproductive success and a regular spatial distribution of nesting territories. Territoriality was the most important determinant of habitat selection.Goshawks selected extra-mature Eucalyptus trees in areas of high structural complexity (high tree density, tree species richness, and number of tree strata) in the most heterogeneous forest stands (old-mixed Eucalyptus). Reproductive success decreased with increasing local density of breeding pairs, but reproductive success was not related to structural characteristics of nest stands.The studied plantations provided a suitable breeding habitat for Goshawks. The birds preferred to nest in large Eucalyptus trees with appropriate structure in their immediate surroundings. The strong preference of Goshawks for structurally mature forest patches may make them useful as a surrogate species for assessing the ability of forest management practices to promote overall biodiversity in exotic Eucalyptus plantations exploited at low intensity.	[Garcia-Salgado, G; Rebollo, S; Perez-Camacho, L; Martinez-Hesterkamp, S; Madrigal-Gonzalez, J] Univ Alcala De Henares, Dept Life Sci, Ecol & Forest Restorat Grp, Sci Bldg, Madrid, Spain; [De la Montana, E] Secular Univ Eloy Alfaro Manabi, Fac Agr & Livestock Sci, Manta, Ecuador	Garcia-Salgado, G (reprint author), Univ Alcala De Henares, Dept Life Sci, Ecol & Forest Restorat Grp, Sci Bldg, Madrid, Spain.	gonzalo.garcias@uah.es	GARCIA-SALGADO, GONZALO/F-7122-2019	GARCIA-SALGADO, GONZALO/0000-0002-4729-5710	3	9	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2018	FEB	409					817	825	9		FW8JL	CCC:000425578000079					2019-04-10J	Hunt, KLFraser, JDFriedrich, MJKarpanty, SMCatlin, DH	Hunt, Kelsi L.; Fraser, James D.; Friedrich, Meryl J.; Karpanty, Sarah M.; Catlin, Daniel H.		Demographic response of Piping Plovers suggests that engineered habitat restoration is no match for natural riverine processes	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Charadrius melodus, Missouri River, flooding, habitat creation, riparian ecosystem, Piping Plover	CHARADRIUS-MELODUS, NESTING-SUCCESS, FLOW REGULATION, MISSOURI RIVER, SITE FIDELITY, GREAT-PLAINS, SURVIVAL, FRAGMENTATION, MANAGEMENT, POPULATIONS	Globally, riparian ecosystems are in decline due to anthropogenic modifications, including damming. Reduced frequency and altered timing of flood events decreases sandbar deposition, which reduces habitat for sandbar-breeding birds, including the threatened Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus). In response to limited breeding habitat and small populations, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers constructed 255 ha of sandbar habitat on the Missouri River, USA, from 2004 to 2009. During the breeding seasons of 2010 and 2011, historically high flows resulted in the creation of 1,046 ha of suitable sandbar habitat on the Missouri River. We compared the demographic responses of Piping Plovers to this anthropogenic and natural habitat creation. We found that demographic parameters, including nest success ((X) over bar (preflood) = 0.45 +/- 0.02 SE vs. (X) over bar (postflood) = 0.74 +/- 0.02 SE), prefledging chick survival ((X) over bar (preflood) = 0.39 +/- 0.09 SE vs. (X) over bar (postflood) = 0.65 +/- 0.03 SE), and hatch-year survival ((X) over bar (preflood) = 0.16 +/- 0.03 SE vs. (X) over bar (postflood) = 0.46 +/- 0.03 SE), were consistently higher on the flood-created habitat than on the engineered habitat, leading to population growth after the flood. These differences were related to increased sandbar habitat, low nesting densities, and decreased nest and chick predation. As ecosystems are increasingly altered, ecologists seldom have the opportunity to make appropriate comparisons between managed and natural ecosystem processes. Our results suggest that management intervention may not be an appropriate substitute for natural ecosystem processes in riparian ecosystems.	[Hunt, KL; Fraser, JD; Friedrich, MJ; Karpanty, SM; Catlin, DH] Virginia Polytech Inst & State Univ, Dept Fish & Wildlife Conservat, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA	Hunt, KL (reprint author), Virginia Polytech Inst & State Univ, Dept Fish & Wildlife Conservat, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA.	hunt0382@vt.edu			4	14	OXFORD UNIV PRESS INC	CARY	JOURNALS DEPT, 2001 EVANS RD, CARY, NC 27513 USA	http://www.oxfordjournals.org	0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2018	FEB	120	1				149	165	17		FV7NS	CCC:000424772100011					2019-04-10J	Calvi, GCampedelli, TFlorenzano, GTRossi, P	Calvi, Gianpiero; Campedelli, Tommaso; Florenzano, Guido Tellini; Rossi, Patrizia		Evaluating the benefits of agri-environment schemes on farmland bird communities through a common species monitoring programme. A case study in northern Italy	AGRICULTURAL SYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AGRICULTURE/AGRONOMY	Agriculture	Agri-environment schemes, Farmland birds, Organic farming, Landscape structure	CONVENTIONAL ARABLE FARMS, AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, ECOLOGICAL EFFECTIVENESS, HABITAT HETEROGENEITY, MANAGEMENT-PRACTICES, POPULATION TRENDS, LANDSCAPE-SCALE, BREEDING BIRDS, BIODIVERSITY, CONSERVATION	Biodiversity in agricultural environments is considered to be undergoing steep declines in most European countries. Among taxa which experienced consistent decreases, birds are of central importance, both for their value as ecological indicators and for the high number of species of conservation concern associated with agricultural ecosystems.In this paper, using data from the Italian Common Breeding Bird monitoring programme collected in the period 2009-2014, we analysed the effect on breeding birds of four Agri-Environment Schemes (AES) in Emilia-Romagna region, one of the most important agricultural areas of Italy. Specifically we compared the values of three community parameters (total, farmland and generalist species richness) and the abundance of seven species (Alandn arvensis, Hirundo rustica, Motacilla fiava, Serinus serinus, Chloris chloris, Carduelis carduelis and Passer montanus) in areas covered by AES and not.The results of the analyses show that, at the scale we investigated, the positive effects of these measures are very limited and often not positive, particularly for farmland specialist species. These findings seem to suggest that the application of these measures, albeit widespread over the Region, is not able to counteract the negative effects of the simplification and impoverishment of the agricultural landscape. Our results show the AES management related more with single species metrics than community measures. Therefore to improve the effectiveness of AES, and to try to contrasts the dramatic decline of farmland bird species, we think these schemes should be designed on the specific needs of species and habitats of high conservation priority.	[Calvi, G] Studio Pteryx, Via Risorgimento 9, I-20060 Basiano, MI, Italy; [Campedelli, T; Florenzano, GT] DREAM Italia, Via Garibaldi 3, I-52015 Pratovecchio, AR, Italy; [Rossi, P] Lipu BirdLife Italia, Via Udine 3-A, I-43122 Parma, PR, Italy	Calvi, G (reprint author), Studio Pteryx, Via Risorgimento 9, I-20060 Basiano, MI, Italy.	g.calvi@pteryx.it			10	23	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0308-521X		AGR SYST	Agric. Syst.	2018	FEB	160					60	69	10		FU5MI	CCC:000423897200006					2019-04-10J	Mourant, ALecomte, NMoreau, G	Mourant, A.; Lecomte, N.; Moreau, G.		Indirect effects of an ecosystem engineer: how the Canadian beaver can drive the reproduction of saproxylic beetles	JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Castor canadensis, Coleoptera, ecosystem function, resource pulse, natural perturbations, realized fecundity, ecosystem engineer, saproxylic beetles	BOREAL FOREST, DEAD WOOD, CASTOR-CANADENSIS, PILEATED WOODPECKER, SPECIES RICHNESS, BARK BEETLES, FOOD WEBS, COLEOPTERA, LANDSCAPE, ASSEMBLAGES	Environmental rearrangements by ecosystem engineers influence food-web characteristics by altering resource accessibility/availability in the newly created habitat. However, the paucity of empirical studies on this indirect interaction has hindered the integration of ecosystem engineering and food-web theory. Here, we investigated the effect of the Canadian beaver Castor canadensis on the activity, realized fecundity and ecosystem functions provided by saproxylic beetles by quantifying beetle emergence holes on woody debris within the Kouchibouguac National Park, New Brunswick, Canada. We tested the hypothesis that perturbation induced by beaver activity enhances the activity and realized fecundity of saproxylic beetles by modifying their habitat and resource accessibility. We used 16 sites identified as beaver modified, each paired with a control site <500m away. At each site, we quantified insect emergence holes on snags at increasing distances from the watercourse. Our results suggest that engineered habitat patches enhance the activity and reproduction of saproxylic beetle species, small emergence holes from Scolytinae being only observed in abundance on small trees located close to the watercourse and large emergence holes from Cerambycidae being one third more abundant throughout beaver-modified sites. The complementary relationship between the Canadian beaver and saproxylic beetles demonstrates the potential for conservation measures encapsulating all of these organisms.	[Mourant, A; Lecomte, N; Moreau, G] Univ Moncton, Dept Biol, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9, Canada; [Mourant, A; Lecomte, N] Univ Moncton, Polar & Boreal Ecol, Moncton, NB, Canada	Moreau, G (reprint author), Univ Moncton, Dept Biol, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9, Canada.	gaetan.moreau@umoncton.ca		Moreau, Gaetan/0000-0002-9217-5849	10	23	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0952-8369		J ZOOL	J. Zool.	2018	FEB	304	2				90	97	8		FU4KL	CCC:000423821900002					2019-04-10J	Anderson, MGAlisauskas, RTBatt, BDJBlohm, RJHiggins, KFPerry, MCRingelman, JKSedinger, JSSerie, JRSharp, DETrauger, DLWilliams, CK	Anderson, Michael G.; Alisauskas, Ray T.; Batt, Bruce D. J.; Blohm, Robert J.; Higgins, Kenneth F.; Perry, Matthew C.; Ringelman, James K.; Sedinger, James S.; Serie, Jerome R.; Sharp, David E.; Trauger, David L.; Williams, Christopher K.		The Migratory Bird Treaty and a Century of Waterfowl Conservation	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	conservation history, habitat management, harvest management, human populations, Migratory Bird Treaty, population estimation, waterfowl management, wetlands	GREATER SNOW GEESE, BRANTA-BERNICLA-NIGRICANS, LONG-TERM DECLINE, NORTHERN PINTAILS, CANADA GEESE, WINTERING CANVASBACKS, DENSITY-DEPENDENCE, BLACK BRANT, BODY-MASS, GEOGRAPHIC-VARIATION	In the final decades of the nineteenth century, concern was building about the status of migratory bird populations in North America. In this literature review, we describe how that concern led to a landmark conservation agreement in 1916, between the United States and Great Britain (on behalf of Canada) to conserve migratory birds shared by Canada and the United States. Drawing on published literature and our personal experience, we describe how subsequent enabling acts in both countries gave rise to efforts to better estimate population sizes and distributions, assess harvest rates and demographic impacts, design and fund landscape-level habitat conservation initiatives, and organize necessary political and regulatory processes. Executing these steps required large-scale thinking, unprecedented regional and international cooperation, ingenuity, and a commitment to scientific rigor and adaptive management. We applaud the conservation efforts begun 100 years ago with the Migratory Bird Treaty Convention. The agreement helped build the field of wildlife ecology and conservation in the twentieth century but only partially prepares us for the ecological and social challenges ahead. (C) 2017 The Wildlife Society.	[Anderson, MG] Ducks Unlimited Canada, Inst Wetland & Waterfowl Res, Stonewall, MB R0C 2Z0, Canada; [Alisauskas, RT] Environm & Climate Change Canada, Prairie & Northern Res Ctr, 115 Perimeter Rd, Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X4, Canada; [Batt, BDJ] Ducks Unltd Inc, Memphis, TN 38119 USA; [Blohm, RJ] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Migratory Bird Management, Bowie, MD 20715 USA; [Higgins, KF] South Dakota State Univ, USGS SD Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Brookings, SD 57007 USA; [Perry, MC] USGS Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, 12100 Beech Forest Rd, Laurel, MD 20708 USA; [Ringelman, JK] Ducks Unltd Inc, Menoken, ND 58558 USA; [Sedinger, JS] Univ Nevada Reno, Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Serie, JR] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Migratory Bird Management, Easton, MD 21601 USA; [Sharp, DE] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Migratory Bird Management, Littleton, CO 80127 USA; [Trauger, DL] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Marine St Croix, MN 55047 USA; [Williams, CK] Univ Delaware, Dept Entomol & Wildlife Ecol, Newark, DE 19716 USA	Anderson, MG (reprint author), Ducks Unlimited Canada, Inst Wetland & Waterfowl Res, Stonewall, MB R0C 2Z0, Canada.	m_anderson@ducks.ca			6	27	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2018	FEB	82	2				247	259	13		FT8QH	CCC:000423417700002					2019-04-10J	Arnold, TWClark, RGKoons, DNSchaub, M	Arnold, Todd W.; Clark, Robert G.; Koons, David N.; Schaub, Michael		Integrated Population Models Facilitate Ecological Understanding and Improved Management Decisions	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	band recovery, fecundity, harvest surveys, integrated population models, survival, waterfowl management	NORTH-AMERICAN WATERFOWL, LONG-TERM POPULATION, BREEDING BIRD SURVEY, BAND-RECOVERY DATA, DEMOGRAPHIC PARAMETERS, LESSER SCAUP, DENSITY-DEPENDENCE, CLIMATE-CHANGE, SURVIVAL, HARVEST	Integrated population models (IPMs) represent a formal statistical methodology for combining multiple data sets such as population counts, band recoveries, and fecundity estimates into a single unified analysis with dual objectives: better estimating population size, trajectory, and vital rates; and formally describing the ecological processes that generated these patterns. Although IPMs have been used in population ecology and fisheries management, their use in wildlife management has been limited. Data sets available for North American waterfowl are unprecedented in terms of time span (> 60 years) and geographic coverage, and are especially well-suited for development of IPMs that could improve the understanding of population ecology and help guide future harvest and habitat management decisions. In this overview, we illustrate 3 potential benefits of IPMs: integration of multiple data sources (i.e., population counts, mark-recapture data, and fecundity estimates), increased precision of parameter estimates, and ability to estimate missing demographic parameters by reanalyzing results from a historical study of canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria). Drawing from our own published and unpublished work, we demonstrate how IPMs could be used to identify the critical vital rates that have had the greatest influence on population change in lesser scaup (Aythya affinis), evaluate potential mechanisms of harvest compensation for American black ducks (Anas rubripes), or prioritize the most appropriate places to conduct habitat management to benefit northern pintails (Anas acuta). Integrated population models provide a powerful platform for evaluating alternative hypotheses about population regulation and they have potential to advance the understanding of wildlife ecology and help managers make ecologically based decisions. (C) 2017 The Wildlife Society.	[Arnold, TW] Univ Minnesota, Dept Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Clark, RG] Environm & Climate Change Canada, Wildlife Res Div, 115 Perimeter Rd, Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X4, Canada; [Koons, DN] Utah State Univ, Dept Wildland Resources, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Koons, DN] Utah State Univ, Ecol Ctr, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Schaub, M] Swiss Ornithol Inst, CH-6204 Sempach, Switzerland; [Koons, DN] Colorado State Univ, Dept Fish Wildlife & Conservat Biol, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA	Arnold, TW (reprint author), Univ Minnesota, Dept Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol, St Paul, MN 55108 USA.	arnol065@umn.edu		Arnold, Todd/0000-0002-7920-772X	8	37	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2018	FEB	82	2				266	274	9		FT8QH	CCC:000423417700004					2019-04-10J	Dross, CPrince, KJiguet, FTichit, M	Dross, Camille; Prince, Karine; Jiguet, Frederic; Tichit, Muriel		Contrasting bird communities along production gradients of crops and livestock in French farmlands	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agricultural production, Farmland birds, Specialization, Trophic structure	NET PRIMARY PRODUCTION, AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, BIOTIC HOMOGENIZATION, HUMAN APPROPRIATION, BIODIVERSITY, CONSERVATION, HETEROGENEITY, POPULATIONS, GRASSLAND, DIVERSITY	Impacts on birds of intensive management practices and of landscape simplification have been widely studied, but there is a lack of knowledge about impacts on birds of landscapes associated with intensive livestock production. The objective of this work was to investigate changes in several bird community descriptors along different production gradients. Production of amble crops and from grazing livestock was computed over French agroecosystems and expressed in terms of edible energy. Using data from the French Breeding Bird Survey along with data from national agricultural statistics, we modeled the relationship between production and five bird community descriptors, namely, community trophic index, community specialization index, and three group specific species richness indices. Bird communities were shaped by two production gradients. Along a gradient of increasing crop production, we observed a shift from locally species-diverse communities dominated by generalist or grassland specialist species towards species-poor communities dominated by granivorous species specialized in arable habitats (all p-values <= 0.002). Second, we observed a shift towards homogenized communities dominated by generalists along a gradient of increasing livestock production (p-values 0.001). Our research highlights the need to consider crop and livestock separately when investigating their impacts on biodiversity. It also hints towards the need for differentiated strategies to protect farmland birds in crop regions and in livestock regions.	[Dross, C; Tichit, M] Univ Paris Saclay, UMR SADAPT, INRA, AgroParisTech, F-75005 Paris, France; [Prince, K; Jiguet, F] UPMC, Ctr Ecol & Sci Conservat CESCO UMR7204, MNHN, Sorbonne Univ,CNRS, CP51,55 Rue Buffon, F-75005 Paris, France; [Prince, K] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA	Dross, C (reprint author), UMR 1048 SADAPT, 16 Rue Claude Bernard, F-75005 Paris, France.	camille.dross.2008@polytechnique.org; karine.prince@gmail.com; fjiguet@mnhn.fr; muriel.tichit@agroparistech.fr		Prince, Karine/0000-0001-7739-7438	5	28	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2018	FEB	253					55	61	7		FQ4FC	CCC:000418312100006		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Battisti, CMarini, F	Battisti, Corrado; Marini, Francesca		Structural changes in bird communities before and after coppice management practices: a comparison using a diversity/dominance approach	ISRAEL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	breeding birds, BACI design, diversity/dominance diagrams, oak woods, central Italy	HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, FOREST MANAGEMENT, NATURAL RESERVE, HOLM OAK, VEGETATION, IMPACT, CONSERVATION, ABUNDANCE, PATTERNS, EDGE	We report data on the effects of coppice management on breeding birds in paired oak woods of central Italy using a Before-After-Control-Impact sampling design, hypothesizing that this practice strongly affect abundance, richness and diversity at community level. Using point count method, we obtained first evidence of a coppice management effect acting as a stressor on the breeding bird assemblage structure. We observed a significant decrease in averaged species richness and abundance in coppiced areas before and after the coppicing practices, differently from the control area. Analogously, regression lines derived by species frequencies in diversity/dominance diagrams showed a different trends when comparing the coppiced areas before and after the cutting, indicating a stress in the latter. This pattern is supported by the H' diversity and evenness values that changed abruptly between years only in the coppiced area. These changes can be related to the significant reduction in tree plant density before and after cutting, especially for those with a diameter between 7.5 and 23 cm.	[Battisti, C; Marini, F] Citta Metropolitana Roma Capitale, Torre Flavia LTER Stn, Serv Aree Protette, Parchi Reg,Via Tiburtina 691, Rome, Italy; [Battisti, C] Univ Rome III, Fac Biol, Viale Marconi 446, I-00146 Rome, Italy	Battisti, C (reprint author), Citta Metropolitana Roma Capitale, Torre Flavia LTER Stn, Serv Aree Protette, Parchi Reg,Via Tiburtina 691, Rome, Italy.; Battisti, C (reprint author), Univ Rome III, Fac Biol, Viale Marconi 446, I-00146 Rome, Italy.	c.battisti@cittametropolitanaroma.gov.it			1	1	BRILL ACADEMIC PUBLISHERS	LEIDEN	PLANTIJNSTRAAT 2, P O BOX 9000, 2300 PA LEIDEN, NETHERLANDS	http://www.brill.nl	1565-9801		ISR J ECOL EVOL	Isr. J. Ecol. Evol.	2018		64	1-4				16	24	9		HK5FM	CCC:000457990500002					2019-04-10J	Thorn, SBassler, CBrandl, RBurton, PJCahall, RCampbell, JLCastro, JChoi, CYCobb, TDonato, DCDurska, EFontaine, JBGauthier, SHebert, CHothorn, THutto, RLLee, EJLeverkus, ABLindenmayer, DBObrist, MKRost, JSeibold, SSeidl, RThom, DWaldron, KWermelinger, BWinter, MBZmihorski, MMuller, J	Thorn, Simon; Baessler, Claus; Brandl, Roland; Burton, Philip J.; Cahall, Rebecca; Campbell, John L.; Castro, Jorge; Choi, Chang-Yong; Cobb, Tyler; Donato, Daniel C.; Durska, Ewa; Fontaine, Joseph B.; Gauthier, Sylvie; Hebert, Christian; Hothorn, Torsten; Hutto, Richard L.; Lee, Eun-Jae; Leverkus, Alexandro B.; Lindenmayer, David B.; Obrist, Martin K.; Rost, Josep; Seibold, Sebastian; Seidl, Rupert; Thom, Dominik; Waldron, Kaysandra; Wermelinger, Beat; Winter, Maria-Barbara; Zmihorski, Michal; Mueller, Joerg		Impacts of salvage logging on biodiversity: A meta-analysis	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bark beetle, climate change, dead wood, disturbed forest, fire, natural disturbance, post-disturbance logging, salvage logging, saproxylic taxa, windstorm	RETENTION FORESTRY, NORTHEASTERN ALBERTA, NATURAL-DISTURBANCE, BIRD COMMUNITIES, PINE FORESTS, MANAGEMENT, BEETLE, WINDTHROW, DIVERSITY, WILDFIRE	1. Logging to "salvage" economic returns from forests affected by natural disturbances has become increasingly prevalent globally. Despite potential negative effects on biodiversity, salvage logging is often conducted, even in areas otherwise excluded from logging and reserved for nature conservation, inter alia because strategic priorities for post-disturbance management are widely lacking.2. A review of the existing literature revealed that most studies investigating the effects of salvage logging on biodiversity have been conducted less than 5years following natural disturbances, and focused on non-saproxylic organisms.3. A meta-analysis across 24 species groups revealed that salvage logging significantly decreases numbers of species of eight taxonomic groups. Richness of dead wood dependent taxa (i.e. saproxylic organisms) decreased more strongly than richness of non-saproxylic taxa. In contrast, taxonomic groups typically associated with open habitats increased in the number of species after salvage logging.4. By analysing 134 original species abundance matrices, we demonstrate that salvage logging significantly alters community composition in 7 of 17 species groups, particularly affecting saproxylic assemblages.5. Synthesis and applications. Our results suggest that salvage logging is not consistent with the management objectives of protected areas. Substantial changes, such as the retention of dead wood in naturally disturbed forests, are needed to support biodiversity. Future research should investigate the amount and spatio-temporal distribution of retained dead wood needed to maintain all components of biodiversity.	[Thorn, S; Muller, J] Julius Maximilians Univ Wurzburg, Dept Anim Ecol & Trop Biol Zool 3, Field Stn Fabrikschleichach, Rauhenebrach, Germany; [Bassler, C; Seibold, S; Muller, J] Bavarian Forest Natl Pk, Grafenau, Germany; [Brandl, R] Philipps Univ Marburg, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol, Anim Ecol, Marburg, Germany; [Burton, PJ] Univ Northern British Columbia, Terrace, BC, Canada; [Cahall, R; Campbell, JL] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, Corvallis, OR USA; [Castro, J] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain; [Choi, CY] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Forest Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Cobb, T] Royal Alberta Museum, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Donato, DC] Univ Washington, Sch Environm & Forest Sci, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Durska, E] Polish Acad Sci, Dept Ecol & Biodivers, Museum & Inst Zool, Warsaw, Poland; [Fontaine, JB] Murdoch Univ, Sch Vet & Life Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Gauthier, S; Hebert, C] Laurentian Forestry Ctr, Canadian Forest Serv, Nat Resources Canada, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Hothorn, T] Univ Zurich, Dept Biostat, Zurich, Switzerland; [Hutto, RL] Univ Montana, Div Biol Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Lee, EJ] Daejeon Sejong Res Inst, Urban Planning Res Grp, Daejeon, South Korea; [Leverkus, AB] Univ Alcala De Henares, Dept Life Sci, Ecol Unit, Madrid, Spain; [Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Obrist, MK] WSL Swiss Fed Inst Forest, Snow & Landscape Res, Biodivers & Conservat Biol, Birmensdorf, Switzerland; [Rost, J] Cent Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic, Dept Environm Sci & Food Ind, Catalonia, Vic, Spain; [Rost, J] Univ Girona, Dept Environm Sci, Girona, Spain; [Seibold, S] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Terr Ecol, Dept Ecol & Ecosyst Management, Freising Weihenstephan, Germany; [Seidl, R; Thom, D] Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci Vienna, Dept Forest & Soil Sci, Inst Silviculture, Vienna, Austria; [Waldron, K] Laval Univ, Dept Wood & Forest Sci, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Wermelinger, B] WSL Swiss Fed Inst Forest, Snow & Landscape Res, Forest Dynam Forest Entomol, Birmensdorf, Switzerland; [Winter, MB] Forest Res Inst Baden Wurttemberg FVA, Freiburg, Germany; [Zmihorski, M] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol, Uppsala, Sweden	Thorn, S (reprint author), Julius Maximilians Univ Wurzburg, Dept Anim Ecol & Trop Biol Zool 3, Field Stn Fabrikschleichach, Rauhenebrach, Germany.	simon@thornonline.de	Castro, Jorge/M-1509-2014; Wermelinger, Beat/N-3601-2016; Gauthier, Sylvie/; , Michal/; Thom, Dominik/	Castro, Jorge/0000-0002-6362-2240; Wermelinger, Beat/0000-0003-3235-6741; Gauthier, Sylvie/0000-0001-6720-0195; , Michal/0000-0002-2951-3462; Thom, Dominik/0000-0001-8091-6075	8	8	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2018	JAN	55	1				279	289	11		FP6VM	CCC:000417764600028	29276308	Green Published, Bronze			2019-04-10J	Poirazidis, KChaideftou, EMartinis, ABontzorlos, VGalani, PKalivas, D	Poirazidis, K.; Chaideftou, E.; Martinis, A.; Bontzorlos, V; Galani, P.; Kalivas, D.		Temporal shifts in floristic and avian diversity in Mediterranean pine forest ecosystems under different fire pressure: The island of Zakynthos as a case study	ANNALS OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	pinewoods, post-fire impacts, biodiversity, ecological coherence, avifauna, flora, Zakynthos	INTERMEDIATE DISTURBANCE HYPOTHESIS, BIRD ASSEMBLAGES, SPECIES RICHNESS, BOREAL FOREST, NATIONAL-PARK, VEGETATION, LANDSCAPES, WILDFIRE, PORTUGAL, DYNAMICS	We evaluated how fire impacts the ecological coherence of Aleppo pine forests and their biodiversity over a 40-year period. The study area forms part of an insular ecosystem of Zakynthos Island (Zante) in western Greece, which forms part of the Ionian Islands. Post-fire effects were studied for both plant and bird diversity at 20 sampling plots, using stratified random sampling, during the summer of 2012. The plots were selected based on the frequency of burning since the 1970s. Sites were categorized as: 1) no burning for >40 years, 2) burnt once in the 1970s, 3) burnt twice, first in the 1970s and again in 2000-2010, 4) burnt three times, first in the 1970s. and twice more in 2000-2010, and 5) burnt four times, first in the1970s, twice more in 2000-2010. and again in 2011. A total of 79 plant species and 26 bird species were recorded at the studied sites. One-way ANOVA analysis showed that fire intensity has a significant impact on alpha floristic diversity. Average plant species richness at sites that burned in 2011 was significantly higher than in those that burned in the 1970s. Detected differences in bird species richness were not significant; however, more species were documented in the forested habitats (unburnt for >40 years, and burnt in the 1970s). The highest Jaccard similarity index was observed between the sites that had not burned for more than 40 years and the sites that burned in the 1970s. The lowest floristic similarity to non-burnt sites was observed between the recently burnt sites in 2011 and the sites that burned in the 1970s. The lowest bird similarity was detected between recently burnt sites in 2011 and sites that had not burned for more than 40 years. DCA ordination showed the presence of a clear fire gradient, from intensively burnt open sites to non-burnt forest sites. We suggest that fire is essential to maintain biodiversity in Aleppo pine forests, but only at intermediate frequency.	[Poirazidis, K; Chaideftou, E; Martinis, A] Technol Educ Inst Ionian Isl, Dept Environm Techn, Panagoula 29100, Zante, Greece; [Bontzorlos, V] Ctr Res & Technol Hellas CERTH, Inst Bioecon & Agritechnol iBO, Dimarhou Georgiadi Nikolaou 118, Thessaly 38333, Volos, Greece; [Galani, P] NCC Nat Conservat Consultants Ltd, Athens, Greece; [Kalivas, D] Agr Univ Athens, Lab Agr Chem & Soil Sci, GIS Res Unit, Iera Odos 75, GR-11855 Athens, Greece	Chaideftou, E (reprint author), Technol Educ Inst Ionian Isl, Dept Environm Techn, Panagoula 29100, Zante, Greece.	eugeniachd@gmail.com			2	2	EDITURA SILVICA	VOLUNTARI	FOREST RESEARCH MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE ICAS, SOS STEFANESTI NR 128, VOLUNTARI, ILFOV 077190, ROMANIA	http://www.editurasilvica.ro	1844-8135		ANN FOR RES	Ann. For. Res.	2018		61	1				19	36	18		GX7AZ	CCC:000447917600003		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Elias, DHolzel, NTischew, S	Elias, Daniel; Hoelzel, Norbert; Tischew, Sabine		Goat paddock grazing improves the conservation status of shrub-encroached dry grasslands	TUEXENIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	bare soil, browsing, goat paddocks, litter, livestock, marginal sites, target plant species, restoration, trampling, woody plants	CALCAREOUS GRASSLANDS, SPECIES RICHNESS, SEEDLING EMERGENCE, PLANT DIVERSITY, STOCKING RATE, SHEEP, VEGETATION, EUROPE, BREED, ABANDONMENT	European dry grasslands are predominantly semi-natural communities. Commonly, they have been used as pastures for sheep and goats. Due to their richness in biological diversity and the large number of threatened species, they are recognized as being of high conservation value. However, in the last few decades, a dramatic decline in dry grassland areas has been observed throughout Europe. Pasture abandonment followed by grass and shrub encroachment are the main causes of dry grassland loss, especially at isolated marginal sites. The introduction of goat paddock grazing can be an efficient method for restoring shrub-encroached dry grasslands, but most recommendations are still based on anecdotal evidence. Hence, this study investigated the impact of goat paddock grazing with a relatively high grazing pressure (0.6 to 0.8 LU/ha/yr) over seven years on habitat structure and species richness in six encroached dry grassland localities of the lower Saale River valley in Central Germany. In each paddock, we analyzed 25-m(2) plots in highly (initial woody species cover of >= 25%) and less encroached areas (initial woody species cover < 25%) and compared the development of woody species, grass encroachment indicators, litter cover and the share of bare soil as well as the coverage and number of target and ruderal species with that of ungrazed control plots.We observed the following effects of restorative goat paddock grazing: Woody plants and litter layer cover declined significantly in all paddock plots. In addition, the share of bare soil increased significantly in the less encroached paddock plots. The number of target species increased significantly in the formerly highly encroached plots, whereas the already high target species richness slightly increased on originally less encroached plots. Besides short-lived target species, even red list species were able to colonize the grazed plots. Furthermore, we observed a slightly increasing number of ruderal species, but at a very low level of coverage. An opposite trend was recorded in the ungrazed plots: The cover of woody and competitive grass species, as well as litter coverage, increased significantly over time. While the cover of target species decreased significantly in the highly encroached plots, the number of target species stayed stable in both types of control plots, showing the restoration potential of the encroached grasslands.Based on our findings, we conclude that goat paddock grazing with a relatively high grazing pressure can be an effective tool to restore encroached dry grasslands. The reduction of encroachment and the increasing number of target species correlates with the improved conservation status of these highly valuable dry grassland habitat types. Finally, recommendations for the implementation of restorative goat grazing are given.	[Elias, D; Tischew, S] Anhalt Univ Appl Sci, Dept Nat Conservat & Landscape Planning, Strenzfelder Allee 28, D-06406 Bernburg, Germany; [Holzel, N] Univ Munster, Inst Landscape Ecol, Heisenbergstr 2, D-48149 Munster, Germany	Elias, D (reprint author), Anhalt Univ Appl Sci, Dept Nat Conservat & Landscape Planning, Strenzfelder Allee 28, D-06406 Bernburg, Germany.	Daniel.Elias@hs-anhalt.de	Holzel, Norbert/H-8753-2013	Holzel, Norbert/0000-0002-6367-3400	7	7	FLORISTISCH-SOZIOLOGISCHEN ARBEITSGEMEINSCHAFT E V	GOETTINGEN	WILHELM-WEBER-STRASSE 2, GOETTINGEN, 00000, GERMANY		0722-494X		TUEXENIA	Tuexenia	2018			38				215	233	19		GW9WB	CCC:000447356800012					2019-04-10J	Perez, JHChmura, HEKrause, JS	Perez, Jonathan H.; Chmura, Helen E.; Krause, Jesse S.		Tundra avian community composition during recovery from the Anaktuvuk River Fire	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF WILDLAND FIRE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Arctic, birds, fire recovery, tundra fire	BURN SEVERITY, ALASKA, HYPOTHESIS, CARIBOU, CLIMATE, LICHEN, SIZE	In 2007, a fire burned over 100 000 ha along the Anaktuvuk River in Alaska, causing widespread ecological disturbance. Despite efforts to understand ecosystem recovery, little is known about higher trophic levels. Here, we present qualitative findings from a preliminary bird survey of the bum scar region, conducted in 2014, at three sites representing varying severity of burn damage. We found that abundance and species richness both appear higher at a site that experienced a moderate degree of burn damage than unburned control and severely burned sites. These findings suggest that the impacts of fires on bird communities may be minimal within 7 years post fire. Furthermore, our findings highlight the need for more rigorous efforts to understand the dynamics of tundra bird community fire recovery in a rapidly changing world.	[Perez, JH; Chmura, HE; Krause, JS] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Neurobiol Physiol & Behav, One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA	Perez, JH (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, Dept Neurobiol Physiol & Behav, One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA.	jonathan.perez@abdn.ac.uk			6	6	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1049-8001		INT J WILDLAND FIRE	Int. J. Wildland Fire	2018		27	1				69	71	3		FT9YK	CCC:000423508200006					2019-04-10J	Rodrigues, PShumi, GDorresteijn, ISchultner, JHanspach, JHylander, KSenbeta, FFischer, J	Rodrigues, Patricia; Shumi, Girma; Dorresteijn, Ine; Schultner, Jannik; Hanspach, Jan; Hylander, Kristoffer; Senbeta, Feyera; Fischer, Joern		Coffee management and the conservation of forest bird diversity in southwestern Ethiopia	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bird conservation, Coffee management, Ethiopia, Forest conservation, Forest specialists	BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, SHADE COFFEE, TROPICAL BIODIVERSITY, DISAPPEARING REFUGE, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, MEXICO, PLANTATIONS, CERTIFICATION, LANDSCAPES, AGROECOSYSTEMS	Moist evergreen forests of southwestern Ethiopia host high levels of biodiversity and have a high economic value due to coffee production. Coffee is a native shrub that is harvested under different management systems; its production can have both beneficial and detrimental effects for biodiversity. We investigated how bird community composition and richness, and abundance of different bird groups responded to different intensities of coffee management and the landscape context. We surveyed birds at 66 points in forest habitat with different intensities of coffee management and at different distances from the forest edge. We explored community composition using detrended correspondence analysis in combination with canonical correspondence analysis and indicator species analysis, and used generalized linear mixed models to investigate the responses of different bird groups to coffee management and landscape context. Our results show that (1) despite considerable bird diversity including some endemics, species turnover in the forest was relatively low; (2) total richness and abundance of birds were not affected by management or landscape context; but (3) the richness of forest and dietary specialists increased with higher forest naturalness, and with increasing distance from the edge and amount of forest cover. These findings show that traditional shade coffee management practices can maintain a diverse suite of forest birds. To conserve forest specialists, retaining undisturbed, remote forest is particularly important, but structurally diverse locations near the forest edge can also harbour a high diversity of specialists.	[Rodrigues, P; Shumi, G; Dorresteijn, I; Schultner, J; Hanspach, J; Fischer, J] Leuphana Univ, Fac Sustainabil Sci, Luneburg, Germany; [Hylander, K] Stockholm Univ, Dept Ecol Environm & Plant Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Senbeta, F] Univ Addis Ababa, Coll Dev Studies, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia	Rodrigues, P (reprint author), Leuphana Univ, Scharnhorststr 1, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany.	patricia.rodrigues@leuphana.de; dugo@leuphana.de; ine.dorresteijn@leuphana.de; jannik.schultner@leuphana.de; hanspach@leuphana.de; kristoffer.hylander@su.se; feyeras@yahoo.com; joern.fischer@leuphana.de	Fischer, Joern/C-6625-2012; Schultner, Jannik/	Fischer, Joern/0000-0003-3187-8978; Schultner, Jannik/0000-0002-5865-7975	5	17	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2018	JAN	217					131	139	9		FT2VX	CCC:000423005200014					2019-04-10J	Davis, MAMiller, A	Davis, Mark A.; Miller, Andrew		Savanna Restoration Using Fire Benefits Birds Utilizing Dead Trees, Up to a Point	AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, PRESCRIBED FIRE, OAK SAVANNA, DYNAMICS, SNAGS, FREQUENCY, ARIZONA	The decline of savanna habitat in the upper Midwest has resulted in a decline of savanna and grassland birds. Many savanna restoration efforts involve the re-introduction of fire, a method which kills fire-sensitive trees, often leaving them standing as snags. The purpose of this study was to assess how the number of snags (standing dead trees) is associated with the breeding bird community and to document how the number of snags at a site varied over a 23 y period of restoration by fire. The effect of snags on bird communities was studied by establishing bird census plots along a wide range of snag abundances. To determine for what purposes birds utilized snags, observers documented all visits during an hour-long period for pairs of a dead and live tree. Change in the abundance of snags over time was documented over 23 y in a 16 ha grid. We found both bird species richness and abundance were positively associated with the number of snags and that birds used dead trees for mating and reproductive purposes more than live trees. We found the introduction of fire for restoration purposes initially resulted in an increase in the number of snags, but repeated fires eventually caused the number of snags to decline substantially. If a primary goal of savanna restoration is to enhance breeding bird community, our results show how burn regimes can be managed to maximize the number of dead tree snags for as long as possible.	[Davis, MA; Miller, A] Macalester Coll, Dept Biol, St Paul, MN 55105 USA	Davis, MA (reprint author), Macalester Coll, Dept Biol, St Paul, MN 55105 USA.	davis@macalester.edu			7	16	AMER MIDLAND NATURALIST	NOTRE DAME	UNIV NOTRE DAME, BOX 369, ROOM 295 GLSC, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 USA	http://www.allenpress.com	0003-0031		AM MIDL NAT	Am. Midl. Nat.	2018	JAN	179	1				94	104	11		FR9HT	CCC:000419385300009					2019-04-10J	Charchuk, CBayne, EM	Charchuk, Connor; Bayne, Erin M.		Avian community response to understory protection harvesting in the boreal forest of Alberta, Canada	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Understory protection, Songbird, Boreal forest, Bioacoustics, Ordination, Autonomous recording unit, Retention forestry	MIXEDWOOD FOREST, NATURAL DISTURBANCE, RETENTION FORESTRY, BIRD COMMUNITIES, BIODIVERSITY, FIRE, GROWTH, SILVICULTURE, METAANALYSIS, MANAGEMENT	Traditional harvesting in western boreal forests seeks to approximate natural disturbances, such as wildfire. In mixedwood forests, understory conifers such as white spruce are typically destroyed during natural disturbance harvest (NDH). Understory protection (UP) is a harvesting approach that seeks to protect understory conifers during hardwood harvesting in mixedwood forests. While understory protection harvesting has been implemented for over a decade in Alberta, Canada, there has been no assessment of its use by birds. We surveyed birds in UP and NDH harvest blocks, and the nearby unharvested forest, and evaluated differences in species richness and community composition between the three treatment types. We found NDH had significantly higher species richness than unharvested forests, but did not differ from UP. The three treatments all had significantly different avian community compositions, and NDH showed no convergence with the unharvested forest over 15 years post-harvest. However, UP represented an intermediary between NDH and unharvested forests. When comparing the oldest age class of UP with unharvested forest, we found no significant difference in the bird communities 12 years post-harvest. These results suggest that following understory protection harvest, the retained forest regenerates quickly, rapidly providing habitat to more mature forest species than NDH.	[Charchuk, C; Bayne, EM] Univ Alberta, Dept Biol Sci, L1-199 CCIS, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E9, Canada	Charchuk, C (reprint author), Univ Alberta, Dept Biol Sci, L1-199 CCIS, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E9, Canada.	ccharchu@ualberta.ca			6	26	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2018	JAN	407					9	15	7		FQ2UU	CCC:000418214300003					2019-04-10J	Zimmerling, JRFrancis, CMRoy, CCalvert, AM	Zimmerling, J. Ryan; Francis, Charles M.; Roy, Christian; Calvert, Anna M.		How well does forestry in Ontario's boreal forest emulate natural disturbances from the perspective of birds?	AVIAN CONSERVATION AND ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	boreal, fire, forest management, harvest, natural disturbance emulation, Ontario, point count	SPECIES RICHNESS, ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT, SONGBIRD COMMUNITY, MIXEDWOOD FOREST, FIRE REGIMES, COVER AMOUNT, BIODIVERSITY, HARVEST, CONSERVATION, RESPONSES	Emulating natural disturbance has become a paradigm for biodiversity retention in forest management. This study evaluates the extent to which harvest management practices have created stands that emulate natural fire disturbance from the perspective of bird communities in Ontario, Canada. We compared the relative abundance of forest landbirds at the stand level in mature forest (> 80 years old) with that in early-regenerating (0-20 years) and midregenerating (21-80 years) forests originating from fire or timber harvest across the boreal forest of Ontario using over 7000 point counts. Our results indicate that forest harvest management practices in Ontario have created stands that only partially emulate natural fire disturbances in terms of the bird community composition. Total bird abundance and species richness were significantly lower postharvest than postfire in midregenerating forests, although they did not differ in early-regenerating stands. Species-level comparisons revealed several differences between postharvest and postfire stands, as well as among age classes. Although no species was completely missing from any stand type, 8% of species in early-and 34% in midregenerating stands were detected significantly less often in postharvest than postfire forests. Some other species were found significantly more often in postharvest stands, while the majority of species detected (84% and 71% in early-and midregenerating stands, respectively) showed no significant difference between disturbance types. Collectively, these results suggest that widespread replacement of fire with logging as the dominant disturbance type will shift the relative abundance of species within Ontario's boreal forest bird community. Quantifying the population-level implications of these shifts requires extrapolating these stand level effects to the landscape level, while considering the actual or anticipated abundance and distribution of forest age classes across the province under different forest management regimes.	[Zimmerling, JR; Roy, C] Canadian Wildlife Serv, Environm & Climate Change Canada, Gatineau, PQ, Canada; [Francis, CM] Canadian Wildlife Serv, Environm & Climate Change Canada, Ottawa, ON, Canada	Zimmerling, JR (reprint author), Canadian Wildlife Serv, Environm & Climate Change Canada, Gatineau, PQ, Canada.	Ryan.Zimmerling@canada.ca		Roy, Christian/0000-0002-5599-6234	4	21	RESILIENCE ALLIANCE	WOLFVILLE	ACADIA UNIV, BIOLOGY DEPT, WOLFVILLE, NS B0P 1X0, CANADA	http://www.resalliance.org	1712-6568		AVIAN CONSERV ECOL	Avian Conserv. Ecol.	2017	DEC	12	2				10	10	19		FR8TJ	CCC:000419347000016		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Vergara, PMMeneses, LOSaavedra, MDiaz, FENorambuena, KFierro, ARodewald, ADSoto, GE	Vergara, Pablo M.; Meneses, Luis O.; Saavedra, Marcelo; Diaz, Felipe E.; Norambuena, Katherine; Fierro, Andres; Rodewald, Amanda D.; Soto, Gerardo E.		Magellanic Woodpeckers in three national parks of central-southern Chile: habitat effects and population variation over the last two decades	AVIAN CONSERVATION AND ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Campephilus magellanicus, national parks, population changes	WHITE-BACKED WOODPECKER, TIERRA-DEL-FUEGO, CAMPEPHILUS-MAGELLANICUS, PROTECTED AREAS, FOREST MANAGEMENT, SPECIES RICHNESS, BLACK WOODPECKER, TREE SELECTION, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY	A major challenge for protected areas is providing wildlife with enough suitable habitat to cope with stochastic environment and increased pressure from the surrounding landscapes. In this study, we addressed changes in local populations of Magellanic Woodpeckers (Campephilus magellanicus) occupying three national parks of central-southern Chile. We compared the breeding and postbreeding abundance of woodpeckers during the 1990s with the present (2016) abundance (n = 4 years), and assessed the extent to which abundance was explained by forest type and quality of foraging habitat (as quantified through the plant senescence reflectance index; PSRI). Results show a distinctive temporal variation in woodpecker abundance at each park, with local populations of Magellanic Woodpeckers declining by 42.2% in Conguillio National Park, but increasing by 34.3% in Nahuelbuta National Park. Woodpeckers responded to forest conditions within each park such that their abundance increased with high quality of foraging habitat, i. e., large PSRI values, and the presence of old-growth Monkey puzzle (Araucaria araucana) -Nothofagus pumilio mixed forest. Anecdotal evidence suggests that populations of woodpeckers in Conguillio National Park might have responded negatively to large-scale disturbances from recent forest fires affecting part of the forest area within park. Because stochastic events seemed to strongly mediate population changes, our findings suggest that regional conservation of Magellanic Woodpeckers requires expanding the current conservation area network in central-southern Chile.	[Vergara, PM; Meneses, LO; Diaz, FE; Norambuena, K; Fierro, A] Univ Santiago Chile, Santiago, Chile; [Saavedra, M] Corp Nacl Forestal, Ithaca, NY USA; [Rodewald, AD; Soto, GE] Cornell Univ, Cornell Lab Ornithol, Ithaca, NY USA; [Rodewald, AD; Soto, GE] Cornell Univ, Dept Nat Resources, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA	Vergara, PM (reprint author), Ave Libertador Bernardo OHiggins 3363, Santiago, Chile.	pablo.vergara@usach.cl		Soto, Gerardo/0000-0002-9706-6588	0	6	RESILIENCE ALLIANCE	WOLFVILLE	ACADIA UNIV, BIOLOGY DEPT, WOLFVILLE, NS B0P 1X0, CANADA	http://www.resalliance.org	1712-6568		AVIAN CONSERV ECOL	Avian Conserv. Ecol.	2017	DEC	12	2				15	15	11		FR8TJ	CCC:000419347000018		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Battisti, CDodaro, GFanelli, G	Battisti, Corrado; Dodaro, Giuseppe; Fanelli, Giuliano		Paradoxical environmental conservation: Failure of an unplanned urban development as a driver of passive ecological restoration	ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Project cycle, Plant assemblages, Birds, Historical applied ecology, Civic ecology	BREEDING BIRD COMMUNITIES, HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, INDICATOR VALUES, BIODIVERSITY, ROME, LANDSCAPE, AREA, DISTURBANCE	The recent discipline of historical applied ecology has suggested that casual and context-specific circumstances may play a role in driving socio-ecosystems towards unpredictable changes. Here, we report a case study from Rome (Italy) where a recent history of unplanned stochastic events, beginning with illegal development of an abandoned factory, has unexpectedly turned a degraded industrial area into a site worth of conservation (about 300 plant species, 11 plant communities, 3 EU priority habitats, 62 bird species including 3 taxa of conservation concern at continental scale). Such a paradoxical history is discussed in the light of (i) the complexity arising from organizational, social and ecological systems occurring in this context and, (ii) the role of civic ecology, as a new approach in environmental conservation.	[Battisti, C] Citta Metropolitana Roma, Torre Flavia LTER Long Term Ecol Res Stn, Protected Area Serv, Via Tiburtina 691, I-00159 Rome, Italy; [Dodaro, G] Fdn Sviluppo Sostenibile, Via Garigliano 61a, I-00198 Rome, Italy; [Fanelli, G] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dipartimento Biol, Rome, Italy	Battisti, C (reprint author), Citta Metropolitana Roma, Torre Flavia LTER Long Term Ecol Res Stn, Protected Area Serv, Via Tiburtina 691, I-00159 Rome, Italy.	c.battisti@cittametropolitanaroma.gov.it; dodaro@susdef.it; giuliano.fanelli@uniroma2.it		Fanelli, Giuliano/0000-0002-3143-1212	8	20	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	2211-4645		ENVIRON DEV	Environ. Dev.	2017	DEC	24					179	186	8		FP2CP	CCC:000417423300016					2019-04-10J	Fraser, HRumpff, LYen, JDLRobinson, DWintle, BA	Fraser, Hannah; Rumpff, Libby; Yen, Jian D. L.; Robinson, Doug; Wintle, Brendan A.		Integrated models to support multiobjective ecological restoration decisions	CONSERVATION BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bayesian network, multicriteria decision analysis, species distribution models, state-and-transition model, trade-offs	BELIEF NETWORKS, MANAGEMENT, HABITAT	Many objectives motivate ecological restoration, including improving vegetation condition, increasing the range and abundance of threatened species, and improving species richness and diversity. Although models have been used to examine the outcomes of ecological restoration, few researchers have attempted to develop models to account for multiple, potentially competing objectives. We developed a combined state-and-transition, species-distribution model to predict the effects of restoration actions on vegetation condition and extent, bird diversity, and the distribution of several bird species in southeastern Australian woodlands. The actions reflected several management objectives. We then validated the models against an independent data set and investigated how the best management decision might change when objectives were valued differently. We also used model results to identify effective restoration options for vegetation and bird species under a constrained budget. In the examples we evaluated, no one action (improving vegetation condition and extent, increasing bird diversity, or increasing the probability of occurrence for threatened species) provided the best outcome across all objectives. In agricultural lands, the optimal management actions for promoting the occurrence of the Brown Treecreeper (Climacteris picumnus), an iconic threatened species, resulted in little improvement in the extent of the vegetation and a high probability of decreased vegetation condition. This result highlights that the best management action in any situation depends on how much the different objectives are valued. In our example scenario, no management or weed control were most likely to be the best management options to satisfy multiple restoration objectives. Our approach to exploring trade-offs in management outcomes through integrated modeling and structured decision-support approaches has wide application for situations in which trade-offs exist between competing conservation objectives.	[Fraser, H; Rumpff, L; Yen, JDL; Wintle, BA] Univ Melbourne, Sch BioSci, Parkville, Vic 3010, Australia; [Robinson, D] Trust Nat, 5-379 Collins St, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia	Fraser, H (reprint author), Univ Melbourne, Sch BioSci, Parkville, Vic 3010, Australia.	hannahsfraser@gmail.com		Yen, Jian/0000-0001-7964-923X; Rumpff, Libby/0000-0001-9400-8086	7	18	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0888-8892		CONSERV BIOL	Conserv. Biol.	2017	DEC	31	6				1418	1427	10		FO9BV	CCC:000417183900020	28339135				2019-04-10J	Wilson, ALBowker, MShuttleworth, ADowns, CT	Wilson, Amy-Leigh; Bowker, Meyrick; Shuttleworth, Adam; Downs, Colleen T.		Characteristics of snags and forest structure in southern mistbelt forests of the Amatole region, South Africa	AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	cavity, Eastern Cape, forest, hole-nesters, Podocarpus, snag, species diversity	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, AFROTEMPERATE FOREST, COMMUNITY RESPONSES, CRITICAL RESOURCE, DIVERSITY, DYNAMICS, AVAILABILITY, CONSERVATION, SELECTION, TREES	Standing dead trees (or snags) are an important component of forest ecosystems, especially for tree cavity-nesting vertebrate species, but their prevalence in South African forests remains under studied. Consequently, we investigated forest structure, and the presence and abundance of snags in six southern mistbelt forests in the Eastern Cape, South Africa. These forests have had varying levels of timber extraction over the past 150years or more. We found snags were relatively rare in all six forests (<4.3% of trees sampled). Mean diameter at breast height (dbh) of snags ranged from 52 to 82cm across the forests, with smaller snags in Kologha Forest and larger snags in Tyume Forest. A bimodal distribution of snag successional stages was found, with frequencies peaking at early and late stages, and few in the intermediate stages. Tree species diversity in the forests was relatively low (twelve-nineteen species across forests; only 28 species in total). There was no significant difference in dbh of trees between forests, with most occurring in the 20-29-cm dbh size class. Future studies are required to identify trees that most likely support suitable cavities for tree cavity-nesting bird species, and to determine cavity-nester assemblage requirements in southern African forests.	[Wilson, AL; Bowker, M; Shuttleworth, A; Downs, CT] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, Private Bag X01, ZA-3209 Pietermaritzburg, South Africa	Downs, CT (reprint author), Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, Private Bag X01, ZA-3209 Pietermaritzburg, South Africa.	downs@ukzn.ac.za	Downs, Colleen/A-7770-2010; Shuttleworth, Adam/	Downs, Colleen/0000-0001-8334-1510; Shuttleworth, Adam/0000-0002-6785-580X	0	5	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0141-6707		AFR J ECOL	Afr. J. Ecol.	2017	DEC	55	4				518	529	12		FN1IF	CCC:000415740100014					2019-04-10J	Jones, SKRipplinger, JCollins, SL	Jones, Sydney K.; Ripplinger, Julie; Collins, Scott L.		Species reordering, not changes in richness, drives long-term dynamics in grassland communities	ECOLOGY LETTERS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Community dynamics, desert grassland, desert shrubland, fire, species reordering, species richness, tallgrass prairie	NORTHERN CHIHUAHUAN DESERT, LOCAL BIODIVERSITY CHANGE, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, PLANT COMMUNITY, TEMPORAL DYNAMICS, REGIME SHIFTS, DIVERSITY, ECOSYSTEM, PRECIPITATION, DISTURBANCE	Determining how ecological communities will respond to global environmental change remains a challenging research problem. Recent meta-analyses concluded that most communities are undergoing compositional change despite no net change in local species richness. We explored how species richness and composition of co-occurring plant, grasshopper, breeding bird and small mammal communities in arid and mesic grasslands changed in response to increasing aridity and fire frequency. In the arid system, grassland and shrubland plant and breeding bird communities were undergoing directional change, whereas grasshopper and small mammal communities were stable. In the mesic system, all communities were undergoing directional change regardless of fire frequency. Despite directional change in composition in some communities, species richness of all communities did not change because compositional change resulted more from reordering of species abundances than turnover in species composition. Thus, species reordering, not changes in richness, explains long-term dynamics in these grass and shrub dominated communities.	[Jones, SK; Collins, SL] Univ New Mexico, Dept Biol, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA; [Ripplinger, J] Univ Calif Riverside, Dept Bot & Plant Sci, Riverside, CA 92521 USA	Collins, SL (reprint author), Univ New Mexico, Dept Biol, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA.	scollins@unm.edu	Collins, Scott/P-7742-2014	Collins, Scott/0000-0002-0193-2892	20	68	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1461-023X		ECOL LETT	Ecol. Lett.	2017	DEC	20	12				1556	1565	10		FM3VQ	CCC:000414938000007	29027343	Bronze			2019-04-10J	Pignataro, AGLevy-Tacher, SIAguirre-Rivera, JRNahed-Toral, JGonzalez-Espinosa, MGonzalez-Arzac, ABiganzoli, F	Genoveva Pignataro, Ana; Israel Levy-Tacher, Samuel; Rogelio Aguirre-Rivera, Juan; Nahed-Toral, Jose; Gonzalez-Espinosa, Mario; Gonzalez-Arzac, Adelia; Biganzoli, Fernando		Natural regeneration of tree species in pastures on peasant land in Chiapas, Mexico	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Silvopastoral systems, Traditional practices, Scattered trees, Tree regeneration	TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, ABANDONED PASTURE, COSTA-RICA, SUCCESSION, SEEDS, ESTABLISHMENT, GUANACASTE	In recent decades, large forested areas in southern Mexico have been degraded and even eliminated, often due to conversion of these areas to pastures for cattle grazing. Silvopastoral systems combine livestock raising with tree use, favor conservation of biological diversity, and provide a variety of services to the environment and to farmers. In this study, we evaluated tree regeneration in cattle pastures in the Tulija River Valley of Chiapas, Mexico. We argue that density of seedlings/saplings in the pastures studied is associated with the density of adult trees, with the type of dominant grass (induced or introduced), and with the practice of weeding around seedlings and saplings. We sampled trees in pastures according to categories of size, as well as herbaceous vegetation in 35 cattle pastures, and interviewed farmers with respect to their practices of weeding around seedlings and saplings. We evaluated species capacity for regeneration, and classified species as having adequate or limited natural regeneration capacity (ANR and LNR, respectively). Furthermore, we constructed a generalized least squares model to identify whether density of adult trees, type of grass cover (induced vs. introduced), and farmers practice of weeding affect the density of seedlings and saplings of tree species. Finally, we identified dispersal agents of each tree species recorded and then compared the relative abundance of seedlings/saplings with adult trees for each dispersal agent, using chi-square goodness-of-fit test. In the 35 cattle pastures, we found 17 species (28%) with ANR capacity, 90% of which belonged to secondary vegetation, and 44 species (72%) with LNR capacity; most of these belonged to late successional tree species. Density of seedlings/saplings was positively associated with density of adult trees and the practice of manual weeding. The greatest abundance of seedlings/saplings corresponded to species dispersed by cattle, followed by those dispersed by wind. For adult trees, the most common type of dispersal was by wind, followed by cattle. These results suggest that native tree species are principally dispersed by cattle and wind, and cattle have a positive effect on the regeneration capacity of the most abundant tree species in the pastures studied. We conclude that Chol Mayan silvopastoral management practices in the study communities in Chiapas, Mexico allow for and promote regeneration of native tree species, most of which belong to secondary vegetation, although some belong to late successional species. These simple management practices allow for harvesting some trees in the pasture while also maintaining the regeneration process.	[Pignataro, AG; Levy-Tacher, SI; Nahed-Toral, J; Gonzalez-Espinosa, M] Colegio Frontera Sur ECOSUR, Carretera Panamer & Perifer S-N, San Cristobal Casas 29290, Chiapas, Mexico; [Aguirre-Rivera, JR] Univ Autonoma San Luis Potosi, Inst Invest Zonas Desert, Altair 200 Face Llano, San Luis Potosi, Slp, Mexico; [Gonzalez-Arzac, A; Biganzoli, F] UBA, Fac Agron, Dept Metodos Cuantitat & Sistemas Informac, Av San Martin 4453, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Gonzalez-Arzac, A] Univ Buenos Aires, CONICET, Inst Invest Fisiol & Ecol Vinculadas Agr IFEVA, Fac Agron,Consejo Natl Invest Cient & Tecn, Av San Martin 4453, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina	Pignataro, AG (reprint author), Colegio Frontera Sur ECOSUR, Carretera Panamer & Perifer S-N, San Cristobal Casas 29290, Chiapas, Mexico.	pignatar@agro.uba.ar	Levy-Tacher, Samuel/T-4454-2018; Biganzoli, Fernando/	Levy-Tacher, Samuel/0000-0002-8853-4810; Biganzoli, Fernando/0000-0003-0004-5295	3	26	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2017	NOV	249					137	143	7		FI8MF	CCC:000412256000016					2019-04-10J	Cardoso, PCrespo, LCSilva, IBorges, PAVBoieiro, M	Cardoso, Pedro; Crespo, Luis C.; Silva, Isamberto; Borges, Paulo A., V; Boieiro, Mario		Species conservation profiles of endemic spiders (Araneae) from Madeira and Selvagens archipelagos, Portugal	BIODIVERSITY DATA JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AGRICULTURE/AGRONOMY	Agriculture	Arachnida, Arthropoda, extinction risk, islands, IUCN, Red List	ISLANDS, DIVERSITY	BackgroundThe North Atlantic archipelagos of Madeira and Selvagens present a unique biological diversity including, presently, 56 endemic spider species. Several recent projects provide valuable information on their distribution across most islands and habitats. To date, the only endemic spider assessed according to the IUCN Red List criteria is Hogna ingens. The objective of this paper is to assess all remaining endemic species and advise on possible future conservation actions critical for the survival of endangered species.New informationSeven species were found to have a continuing decline in either range or population size. Their decline can be mostly attributed to habitat destruction or degradation, invasive plant species that reduce quality of habitat, forest fires at high mountain regions and possible competition for resources from invasive congeners. The tetragnathid M. barreti is considered as possibly extinct due to the suspected impact of a competing species. Although most endemic spiders from the Madeira and Selvagens archipelagos have relatively low extinction risk due to the good condition and protection of the laurisilva forests where many live, there are a number of species requiring urgent attention and protection measures. These include all cave and mountain-restricted species as well as those threatened by competing congeners or invasive plants. Extending current protected areas, restoring original habitats of threatened species and the control of invasive taxa should remain a priority for species survival.	[Cardoso, P; Crespo, LC] Univ Helsinki, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Helsinki, Finland; [Cardoso, P; Crespo, LC; Borges, PAV] IUCN SSC Spider & Scorp Specialist Grp, Helsinki, Finland; [Cardoso, P; Borges, PAV; Boieiro, M] Univ Azores, CE3C, Azorean Biodivers Grp, Angra Do Heroismo, Portugal; [Crespo, LC] Univ Barcelona, Biodivers Res Inst UB, Dept Biol Anim, Barcelona, Spain; [Silva, I] Inst Forests & Nat Conservat, Funchal, Portugal	Cardoso, P (reprint author), Univ Helsinki, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Helsinki, Finland.; Cardoso, P (reprint author), IUCN SSC Spider & Scorp Specialist Grp, Helsinki, Finland.; Cardoso, P (reprint author), Univ Azores, CE3C, Azorean Biodivers Grp, Angra Do Heroismo, Portugal.	pedro.cardoso@helsinki.fi	Borges, Paulo/B-2780-2008; Cardoso, Pedro/A-8820-2008	Borges, Paulo/0000-0002-8448-7623; Cardoso, Pedro/0000-0001-8119-9960	0	0	PENSOFT PUBL	SOFIA	12 PROF GEORGI ZLATARSKI ST, SOFIA, 1700, BULGARIA	http://www.pensoft.net	1314-2836		BIODIVERS DATA J	Biodiver. Data J.	2017	OCT	5					20810	20810	218		GZ8NB	CCC:000449747600001	29104441	DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Buchanan, GMPearce-Higgins, JWDouglas, DJTGrant, MC	Buchanan, Graeme M.; Pearce-Higgins, James W.; Douglas, David J. T.; Grant, Murray C.		Quantifying the importance of multi-scale management and environmental variables on moorland bird abundance	IBIS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	burning, habitat associations, heather, hierarchical partitioning, predation, uplands	CURLEW NUMENIUS-ARQUATA, PLOVER PLUVIALIS-APRICARIA, GROUSE LAGOPUS-LAGOPUS, BREEDING SUCCESS, RED GROUSE, GOLDEN PLOVER, LAND-USE, POPULATION-DENSITY, HEATHER MOORLAND, LAPWING VANELLUS	UK moorlands are semi-natural habitats managed for a mix of livestock, game shooting and forestry, among other activities. An assessment of the importance of characteristics that correlate with moorland bird populations of high conservation importance can inform appropriate management at appropriate locations. We use hierarchical partitioning to assess the absolute and relative importance of climate, topography, soil, landscape management (wider scale habitat configuration of forestry and agriculture) and site-based management (indices of predator control, and vegetation characteristics) in determining the abundance of a suite of upland birds in four regions of the UK. Unmeasured regionspecific effects often made the largest contribution to models. Physical characteristics (climate, topography, soil) were important and on average explained a similar amount of variation to site-based management. However, there was considerable interspecific variation in the importance of both. Landscape-scale variables were generally of low importance. An index of predator control was positively correlated with the abundance of Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scotica and two waders. Vegetation characteristics (composition and structure) were, together, strong correlates of the abundance of passerine species. Vegetation characteristics were as important as indices of predator control for waders and grouse. The importance of regional effects, physical characteristics and variables relating to management suggest targeting site-based management (such as predator control or vegetation management) to the areas where physical characteristics are most favourable. The most beneficial management will vary between species, necessitating a mosaic of management options across upland areas to benefit all species.	[Buchanan, GM; Pearce-Higgins, JW; Douglas, DJT; Grant, MC] RSPB Scotland, RSPB Ctr Conservat Sci, 2 Lochside View,Edinburgh Pk, Edinburgh EH12 9DH, Midlothian, Scotland; [Pearce-Higgins, JW] British Trust Ornithol, Thetford IP24 2PU, Norfolk, England; [Grant, MC] Haskoning DHV UK Ltd, 10 Bernard St, Leith EH6 6PP, Scotland	Buchanan, GM (reprint author), RSPB Scotland, RSPB Ctr Conservat Sci, 2 Lochside View,Edinburgh Pk, Edinburgh EH12 9DH, Midlothian, Scotland.	graeme.buchanan@rspb.org.uk			9	45	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0019-1019		IBIS	Ibis	2017	OCT	159	4				744	756	13		FG8BA	CCC:000410649500003					2019-04-10J	Versluijs, MEggers, SHjalten, JLofroth, TRoberge, JM	Versluijs, Martijn; Eggers, Sonke; Hjalten, Joakim; Lofroth, Therese; Roberge, Jean-Michel		Ecological restoration in boreal forest modifies the structure of bird assemblages	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird assemblages, Ecological restoration, Prescribed burning, Gap cutting, Field experiment	PINUS-SYLVESTRIS FOREST, HOLE-NESTING BIRDS, LANDSCAPE COMPLEXITY, NORTHERN EUROPE, SWEDISH FOREST, FIRE SEVERITY, DEAD WOOD, HABITAT HETEROGENEITY, CONIFEROUS FORESTS, SPECIES-DIVERSITY	Ecological restoration is increasingly recognised as a useful tool for biodiversity conservation in boreal forests. Most restoration methods in this environment aim to emulate natural disturbances, and thereby promote the development of key ecological structures. However, research about forest ecosystem restoration is still in its infancy and the responses of many boreal species groups remain to be described. We established a large-scale field experiment to evaluate the short-term effects of two restoration treatments - prescribed burning and gap cutting involving the creation of dead wood - on breeding bird assemblages in boreal Sweden. We censused breeding birds using territory mapping during two years in forest stands subjected to the two restoration treatments, in untreated controls and in old-growth references (nature reserves) (n = 10 per treatment). Averaged over the two census years, we found 1145 territories of 36 bird species. Total bird species richness and abundance did not differ among treatments. However, prescribed burning led to clear changes in the structure of the bird assemblages. When dividing species according to four functional categorizations (migration, foraging, nesting and successional stage), we found that the abundance of long-distance migrants, ground breeders, strong cavity excavators and species preferring early-successional habitat was higher in burned stands than in untreated controls and gap-cut stands, as was the species richness of bark feeders and strong cavity excavators. In contrast, abundance of off-ground breeders and species richness of crown feeders were lower following prescribed burning than in the controls. The gap cutting treatment did not have any significant effects on the bird assemblages. Ecological restoration through prescribed burning can be a useful tool for the conservation of boreal forest birds, including the ecologically important strong cavity excavators (i.e. woodpeckers (Picidae)). Forest managers should therefore be encouraged to use prescribed burning as a restoration tool to quickly provide habitat for bird species adapted to natural disturbances in boreal forest. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Versluijs, M; Hjalten, J; Lofroth, T; Roberge, JM] Swedish Univ Agr Sci SLU, Dept Wildlife Fish & Environm Studies, SE-90183 Umea, Sweden; [Eggers, S] Swedish Univ Agr Sci SLU, Dept Ecol, Box 7044, SE-75007 Uppsala, Sweden; [Roberge, JM] Swedish Univ Agr Sci SLU, Dept Forest Resource Management, NILS, SE-90183 Umea, Sweden	Versluijs, M (reprint author), Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Wildlife Fish & Environm Studies, SLU, S-90183 Umea, Sweden.	martijn.versluijs@slu.se	Roberge, Jean-Michel/C-2953-2008; Johansson, Therese/; Versluijs, Martijn/	Roberge, Jean-Michel/0000-0003-4149-5137; Johansson, Therese/0000-0002-5864-2669; Versluijs, Martijn/0000-0001-8156-9124	7	65	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2017	OCT	401					75	88	14		FE2UU	CCC:000408073300008					2019-04-10J	Newmark, WDJenkins, CNPimm, SLMcNeally, PBHalley, JM	Newmark, William D.; Jenkins, Clinton N.; Pimm, Stuart L.; McNeally, Phoebe B.; Halley, John M.		Targeted habitat restoration can reduce extinction rates in fragmented forests	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Life Sciences (LS)	MULTIDISCIPLINARY, MULTIDISCIPLINARY	Science & Technology - Other Topics	species credit, tropical biodiversity hotspots, understory birds, persistence time, relaxation half-life-area relationship	TERRESTRIAL INSECTIVOROUS BIRDS, SCALE ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, BRAZILIAN ATLANTIC FOREST, BIODIVERSITY HOTSPOTS, SPECIES RICHNESS, LOCAL EXTINCTION, CONSERVATION, DEBT, DIVERSITY, DEFORESTATION	The Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania and the Atlantic Forest of Brazil are two of the most fragmented biodiversity hotspots. Species area relationships predict that their habitat fragments will experience a substantial loss of species. Most of these extinctions will occur over an extended time, and therefore, reconnecting fragments could prevent species losses and allow locally extinct species to recolonize former habitats. An empirical relaxation half-life vs. area relationship for tropical bird communities estimates the time that it takes to lose one-half of all species that will be eventually lost. We use it to estimate the increase in species persistence by regenerating a forest connection 1 km in width among the largest and closest fragments at 11 locations. In the Eastern Arc Mountains, regenerating 8,134 ha of forest would create >316,000 ha in total of restored contiguous forest. More importantly, it would increase the persistence time for species by a factor of 6.8 per location or 2,272 years, on average, relative to individual fragments. In the Atlantic Forest, regenerating 6,452 ha of forest would create >251,000 ha in total of restored contiguous forest and enhance species persistence by a factor of 13.0 per location or similar to 5,102 years, on average, relative to individual fragments. Rapidly regenerating forest among fragments is important, because mean time to the first determined extinction across all fragments is 7 years. We estimate the cost of forest regeneration at $21-$49 million dollars. It could provide one of the highest returns on investment for biodiversity conservation worldwide.	[Newmark, WD] Univ Utah, Nat Hist Museum Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA; [Jenkins, CN] Inst Pesquisas Ecol, BR-12960000 Nazare Paulista, SP, Brazil; [Pimm, SL] Duke Univ, Nicholas Sch Environm, Durham, NC 27708 USA; [McNeally, PB] Univ Utah, Dept Geog, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Halley, JM] Univ Ioannina, Dept Biol Applicat & Technol, GR-45110 Ioannina, Greece	Newmark, WD (reprint author), Univ Utah, Nat Hist Museum Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA.	bnewmark@umnh.utah.edu		Jenkins, Clinton/0000-0003-2198-0637	4	48	NATL ACAD SCIENCES	WASHINGTON	2101 CONSTITUTION AVE NW, WASHINGTON, DC 20418 USA	http://www4.nationalacademies.org/nas/nashome.nsf	0027-8424		P NATL ACAD SCI USA	Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.	2017	SEP	114	36				9635	9640	6		FF7FP	CCC:000409182200055	28827340	Green Published, Bronze			2019-04-10J	Gailly, RPaquet, JYTiteux, NClaessens, HDufrene, M	Gailly, Robin; Paquet, Jean-Yves; Titeux, Nicolas; Claessens, Hugues; Dufrene, Marc		Effects of the conversion of intensive grasslands into Christmas tree plantations on bird assemblages	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Non-food crop, Christmas tree plantation, Grassland, Land use change, Hedge, Bird assemblage	LAND-USE, BIOTIC HOMOGENIZATION, CONSERVATION VALUE, BREEDING BIRDS, FARMLAND, LANDSCAPE, HABITAT, BIODIVERSITY, COMMUNITIES, POPULATIONS	Over the last decade, the conversion of annual-rotation based crops or grassland areas into non-food perennial crops has been increasingly prevalent in European farming systems. This shift is associated with major changes in management practices and has created new environmental conditions and resources for wildlife. Impacts on birds have been examined for bioenergy agricultural systems, such as miscanthus plantations and short-rotation willow coppice. However, they remain largely unknown for Christmas tree plantations (CTPs) that have recently increased considerably in some European countries. We examined the extent to which CTPs alter bird species assemblages in the farmland areas of southern Belgium, where they mainly replace intensive grassland. The abundance of birds was recorded during the breeding season in randomly selected sites located in grassland and in CTP. Results show that introduction of CTP into landscapes dominated by grassland with low hedge densities locally increases bird species richness and abundance without leading to biotic homogenization. Differences in species richness and abundance between grassland and CTP decrease with increasing hedge densities. A community analysis indicates that the plantation of Christmas trees enriches the bird assemblage of intensive grassland areas. In intensive grassland with few hedges, small-size CTPs could constitute an option to increase structural heterogeneity and provide new potential breeding conditions for some farmland birds. However, questions remain about the genuine quality of the resources available in CTP and further research is needed to examine the breeding success and survival of birds that settle in this type of habitat.	[Gailly, R; Titeux, N; Dufrene, M] Univ Liege, Gembloux Agrobio Tech, Dept Biosyst Engn BIOSE, Biodivers & Landscape, Ave Marechal Juin 27, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium; [Paquet, JY] Dept Etud, Rue Nanon 98, B-5000 Namur, Belgium; [Titeux, N] Forest Sci Ctr Catalonia, Carretera Antiga St Llorenc de Morunys Km 2, Solsona 25280, Catalonia, Spain; [Claessens, H] Univ Liege, Gembloux Agrobio Tech, Dept Biosyst Engn BIOSE, Forest Resources Management, Ave Marechal Juin 2Z, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium	Gailly, R (reprint author), Univ Liege, Gembloux Agrobio Tech, Dept Biosyst Engn BIOSE, Biodivers & Landscape, Ave Marechal Juin 27, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium.	robingailly@gmail.com; jean-yves.paquet@aves.be; nicolas.titeux@ctfc.es; hugues.claessens@ulg.ac.be; marc.dufrene@ulg.ac.be	Titeux, Nicolas/G-4723-2016; Marc, Dufrene/	Titeux, Nicolas/0000-0002-7719-7417; Marc, Dufrene/0000-0002-5664-9955	2	19	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2017	SEP	247					91	97	7		FF0NG	CCC:000408597800010					2019-04-10J	Dias, RAGianuca, ATVizentin-Bugoni, JGoncalves, MSSBencke, GABastazini, VAG	Dias, Rafael A.; Gianuca, Andros T.; Vizentin-Bugoni, Jeferson; Goncalves, Maycon Sanyvan S.; Bencke, Glayson A.; Bastazini, Vinicius A. G.		Livestock disturbance in Brazilian grasslands influences avian species diversity via turnover	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Conservation in private lands, Species richness, Beta-diversity, Habitat management, Campos grasslands	BIRD-HABITAT, BIODIVERSITY CHANGE, NATURAL GRASSLANDS, BETA DIVERSITY, HETEROGENEITY, CONSERVATION, COMPONENTS, AMERICA, ECOLOGY, PAMPAS	Managing ecological disturbances at different spatial scales is paramount for maintaining or restoring faunal diversity in grasslands. Whereas some studies have reported varying net effects of livestock disturbance intensity upon species richness in grasslands, most analysis reveal strong effects on beta-diversity. However, beta-diversity can be further partitioned into a nestedness and turnover components, which allows complementary insights on the effects of disturbance on biodiversity across spatial scales. Here we tested for differences in avian species richness and beta-diversity across three intensity levels of livestock disturbance in southern Brazilian grasslands under commercial livestock production. We also tested how disturbance influences the nestedness and turnover components of beta-diversity separately. We found no difference in rarified-extrapolated species richness between disturbance levels. In contrast, we found a significant difference in species composition between disturbance levels, which was attributable to the turnover, but not to the nestedness component. Specifically, livestock disturbance had a predictable effect upon beta-diversity, with turnover of species composition occurring along the gradient of vegetation height in pastures. Our study illustrates the importance of differentiating the turnover and nestedness components of beta-diversity to detect effects of disturbance gradients on biodiversity patterns. We argue that conservation strategies should focus on preserving the mosaic of short- and tall-grass physiognomies associated with the disturbance gradient imposed by livestock production.	[Dias, RA] Univ Fed Pelotas, Inst Biol, Lab Ecol Mamiferos & Aves, DEZG, BR-96010900 Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Gianuca, AT] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Lab Aquat Ecol Evolut & Conservat, Charles Deberiotstr 32, B-24393000 Leuven, Belgium; [Gianuca, AT] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Halle Jena Leipzig, Deutsch Pl 5e, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany; [Vizentin-Bugoni, J] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, PPG Ecol, BR-13083865 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Goncalves, MSS] Univ Valencia, Inst Cavanilles Biodiversidad & Biol Evolut, Valencia 46980, Spain; [Bencke, GA] FZBRS, Museu Ciencias Nat, R Dr Salvador Franca 1427, BR-90690000 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Bastazini, VAG] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Biociencias, PPG Ecol, Ave Bento Goncalves 9500, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil	Dias, RA (reprint author), Univ Fed Pelotas, Inst Biol, Lab Ecol Mamiferos & Aves, DEZG, BR-96010900 Pelotas, RS, Brazil.	rafael.dias@ufpel.edu.br	Vizentin-Bugoni, Jeferson/J-9342-2016; Dias, Rafael/E-7680-2010; Galvao Bastazini, Vinicius Augusto/; Gianuca, Andros/	Vizentin-Bugoni, Jeferson/0000-0002-6343-3650; Dias, Rafael/0000-0001-7203-2093; Galvao Bastazini, Vinicius Augusto/0000-0001-5270-0621; Gianuca, Andros/0000-0001-9639-3846	1	13	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2017	SEP	26	10				2473	2490	18		FC1ZU	CCC:000406637700012					2019-04-10J	Yahya, MSSyafiq, MAshton-Butt, AGhazali, AAsmah, SAzhar, B	Yahya, Muhammad S.; Syafiq, Muhamad; Ashton-Butt, Adham; Ghazali, Amal; Asmah, Siti; Azhar, Badrul		Switching from monoculture to polyculture farming benefits birds in oil palm production landscapes: Evidence from mist netting data	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	agriculture, biodiversity, bird, conservation, oil palm, smallholdings	BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, FOREST BIODIVERSITY, FRUIT BATS, PLANTATIONS, SMALLHOLDINGS, HETEROGENEITY, MICROCLIMATE, STRATEGIES, CONVERSION, RESPONSES	Monoculture farming is pervasive in industrial oil palm agriculture, including those RSPO plantations certified as sustainably managed. This farming practice does not promote the maintenance of farmland biodiversity. However, little scientific attention has been given to polyculture farming in oil palm production landscapes. Polyculture farming is likely to increase the floristic diversity and stand structural complexity that underpins biodiversity. Mist nets were used to sample birds at 120 smallholdings in Peninsular Malaysia. At each site, 12 vegetation structure characteristics were measured. We compared bird species richness, abundance, and composition between monoculture and polyculture smallholdings and used predictive models to examine the effects of habitat quality on avian biodiversity. Bird species richness was significantly greater in polyculture than that of monoculture smallholdings. The number of fallen and standing, dead oil palms were also important positive predictors of species richness. Bird abundance was also strongly increased by standing and dead oil palms and decreased with oil palm stand height. Our results indicate that polyculture farming can improve bird species richness in oil palm production landscapes. In addition, key habitat variables that are closely associated with farming practices, such as the removal of dead trees, should and can be managed by oil palm growers in order to promote biodiversity. To increase the sustainability of oil palm agriculture, it is imperative that stakeholders modify the way oil palms are currently planted and managed. Our findings can guide policy makers and certification bodies to promote oil palm production landscapes that will function more sustainably and increase existing biodiversity of oil palm landscapes.	[Yahya, MS; Syafiq, M; Ghazali, A; Asmah, S; Azhar, B] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Dept Forest Management, Serdang, Malaysia; [Ashton-Butt, A] Univ Southampton, Inst Life Sci, Southampton, Hants, England; [Azhar, B] Univ Putra Malaysia, Inst Biosci, Biodivers Unit, Serdang, Malaysia	Azhar, B (reprint author), Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Dept Forest Management, Serdang, Malaysia.	b_azhar@upm.edu.my		Ashton-Butt, Adham/0000-0002-6926-6099	10	42	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2045-7758		ECOL EVOL	Ecol. Evol.	2017	AUG	7	16				6314	6325	12		FG1BQ	CCC:000409528000023	28861235	DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Doherty, TSvan Etten, EJBDavis, RAKnuckey, CRadford, JQDalgleish, SA	Doherty, Tim S.; van Etten, Eddie J. B.; Davis, Robert A.; Knuckey, Chris; Radford, James Q.; Dalgleish, Sarah A.		Ecosystem Responses to Fire: Identifying Cross-taxa Contrasts and Complementarities to Inform Management Strategies	ECOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird, disturbance ecology, fire ecology, mammal, pyrodiversity, reptile	WESTERN-AUSTRALIA, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, BIRD RESPONSES, VEGETATION, DIVERSITY, REGIMES, IMPACT, PYRODIVERSITY, DISTRIBUTIONS, METAANALYSIS	Changes in fire frequency, extent, and intensity mean that understanding the effects of fire on plants and animals is a primary concern for ecologists and land managers. Given the potentially conflicting fire responses of species both within and across taxonomic groups, prescribing fire regimes based on the response of one or only a few species may have negative consequences for other species. Here, we integrate data collected from a series of independent but complementary studies spanning a 75 + year chronosequence in a semi-arid shrubland ecosystem in south-western Australia to consider how fire management can best promote biodiversity both within and across taxonomic groups (plants, birds, small mammals, and reptiles). Younger fire ages (6-14 years) contained sparse shrubs, large areas of bare ground, and lacked a distinct litter layer and canopy. The oldest vegetation (60-85 years) had a distinct canopy, a well-developed litter layer and cryptogamic crust, higher variability in patch width, and more woody debris. Plant species richness and diversity decreased with time since fire, whereas bird species richness and diversity increased with time since fire, and mammal and reptile species richness and diversity showed no trend. The composition of all four taxonomic groups varied according to time since fire and the presence of 11 species was confined above or below certain fire-age thresholds. Our results support the need to maintain a mix of both younger and older fire ages across the landscape to maximise species diversity, and highlight the particular importance of older fire ages for many species. Future fire management for biodiversity conservation will benefit from identifying and reconciling cross-taxa contrasts and complementarities.	[Doherty, TS; van Etten, EJB; Davis, RA; Knuckey, C; Dalgleish, SA] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Ecosyst Management, Sch Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Radford, JQ] Bush Heritage Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Doherty, TS] Deakin Univ, Ctr Integrat Ecol, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood Campus, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Knuckey, C] MWH Australia, Dept Terr Ecol, Jolimont, Australia; [Dalgleish, SA] Eco Logical Australia Pty Ltd, Perth, Australia	Doherty, TS (reprint author), Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Ecosyst Management, Sch Sci, Joondalup, Australia.; Doherty, TS (reprint author), Deakin Univ, Ctr Integrat Ecol, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood Campus, Geelong, Vic, Australia.	tim.doherty.0@gmail.com	Doherty, Tim/G-9354-2015; Davis, Robert/F-6621-2012; van Etten, Eddie/	Doherty, Tim/0000-0001-7745-0251; Davis, Robert/0000-0002-9062-5754; van Etten, Eddie/0000-0002-7311-1794	1	45	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	1432-9840		ECOSYSTEMS	Ecosystems	2017	AUG	20	5				872	884	13		FD9MI	CCC:000407846100002					2019-04-10J	Zimmerman, GSSauer, JRBoomer, GSDevers, PKGarrettson, PR	Zimmerman, Guthrie S.; Sauer, John R.; Boomer, G. Scott; Devers, Patrick K.; Garrettson, Pamela R.		Integrating Breeding Bird Survey and demographic data to estimate Wood Duck population size in the Atlantic Flyway	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Aix sponsa, Atlantic Flyway, Breeding Bird Survey, count data, harvest, integrated population model, recruitment, survival, Wood Ducks	EASTERN NORTH-AMERICA, BANDING DATA, WATERFOWL, SURVIVAL, MODELS, RATES, BIAS	The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) uses data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) to assist in monitoring and management of some migratory birds. However, BBS analyses provide indices of population change rather than estimates of population size, precluding their use in developing abundance-based objectives and limiting applicability to harvest management. Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) are important harvested birds in the Atlantic Flyway (AF) that are difficult to detect during aerial surveys because they prefer forested habitat. We integrated Wood Duck count data from a ground-plot survey in the northeastern U. S. with AF-wide BBS, banding, parts collection, and harvest data to derive estimates of population size for the AF. Overlapping results between the smaller-scale intensive groundplot survey and the BBS in the northeastern U. S. provided a means for scaling BBS indices to the breeding population size estimates. We applied these scaling factors to BBS results for portions of the AF lacking intensive surveys. Banding data provided estimates of annual survival and harvest rates; the latter, when combined with parts-collection data, provided estimates of recruitment. We used the harvest data to estimate fall population size. Our estimates of breeding population size and variability from the integrated population model (N = 0.99 million, SD = 0.04) were similar to estimates of breeding population size based solely on data from the AF ground-plot surveys and the BBS (N = 1.01 million, SD = 0.04) from 1998 to 2015. Integrating BBS data with other data provided reliable population size estimates for Wood Ducks at a scale useful for harvest and habitat management in the AF, and allowed us to derive estimates of important demographic parameters (e.g., seasonal survival rates, sex ratio) that were not directly informed by data.	[Zimmerman, GS] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Populat & Habitat Assessment Branch, Sacramento, CA 95825 USA; [Sauer, JR] US Geol Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Laurel, MD USA; [Boomer, GS; Devers, PK; Garrettson, PR] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Populat & Habitat Assessment Branch, Laurel, MD USA	Zimmerman, GS (reprint author), US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Populat & Habitat Assessment Branch, Sacramento, CA 95825 USA.	Guthrie_Zimmerman@fws.gov			2	11	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2017	AUG	119	3				616	628	13		FD2XN	CCC:000407398200021					2019-04-10J	Gallo, TStinson, LTPejchar, L	Gallo, Travis; Stinson, Lani T.; Pejchar, Liba		Mitigation for energy development fails to mimic natural disturbance for birds and mammals	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bayesian binomial mixture model, Disturbance ecology, Fire, Habitat use, Land use change, Oil and gas development, Pinyon-juniper woodlands, Single-species management	PINYON-JUNIPER WOODLANDS, HOME-RANGE SIZE, MULE DEER, HABITAT, FOREST, WILDLIFE, CONSEQUENCES, COMMUNITIES, DYNAMICS, PATTERNS	Using habitat mitigation to minimize or offset negative impacts of land use change on biodiversity is increasingly common and widespread. For example, where natural disturbance is undesirable (e.g., wildfire in oil and gas fields), mechanical approaches are frequently used to replace natural disturbance and improve habitat for particular species. However, the consequences of such actions for diverse animal assemblages have gone largely unexamined. To assess whether mitigation targeting single species can emulate natural processes and improve habitat for multiple species, we investigated the short-term response of birds and mammals to mechanical tree reduction and natural wildfire in a landscape altered by energy development. We found that no mammal species responded positively to mitigation for energy development in our study region. In contrast, four mammal species were positively associated with fire, and only a single species responded negatively. Similarly, only a single species of bird responded positively to mitigation. Fire had a positive effect on the density of three bird species and a negative effect on six bird species. We show that habitat mitigation intended to emulate natural disturbances and mitigate the negative effects of energy development has mixed but largely negative short-term consequences for birds and mammals. To sustain biodiversity in places undergoing rapid land use change, mitigation should explicitly measure both intended and unintended effects on diverse taxa.	[Gallo, T; Stinson, LT; Pejchar, L] Colorado State Univ, Dept Fish Wildlife & Conservat Biol, 1474 Campus Delivery, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA	Gallo, T (reprint author), 2001 N Clark St, Chicago, IL 60614 USA.	tgallo@lpzoo.org; lani.stinson@colostate.edu; liba.pejchar@colostate.edu		Stinson, Lani/0000-0002-2163-7938; Gallo, Travis/0000-0003-2877-9848	3	18	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2017	AUG	212		A			39	47	9		FC9UG	CCC:000407186000005					2019-04-10J	Jung, MHill, SLLPlatts, PJMarchant, RSiebert, SFournier, AMunyekenye, FBPurvis, ABurgess, NDNewbold, T	Jung, M.; Hill, S. L. L.; Platts, P. J.; Marchant, R.; Siebert, S.; Fournier, A.; Munyekenye, F. B.; Purvis, A.; Burgess, N. D.; Newbold, T.		Local factors mediate the response of biodiversity to land use on two African mountains	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biodiversity model, biodiversity responses, Kilimanjaro, land use, PREDICTS, birds, tropics	EASTERN ARC MOUNTAINS, TROPICAL FOREST, TERRESTRIAL BIODIVERSITY, GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY, SPECIES RICHNESS, EXTINCTION RISK, COVER CHANGE, HABITAT LOSS, CONSERVATION, KILIMANJARO	Land-use change is the single biggest driver of biodiversity loss in the tropics. Biodiversity models can be useful tools to inform policymakers and conservationists of the likely response of species to anthropogenic pressures, including land-use change. However, such models generalize biodiversity responses across wide areas and many taxa, potentially missing important characteristics of particular sites or clades. Comparisons of biodiversity models with independently collected field data can help us understand the local factors that mediate broad-scale responses. We collected independent bird occurrence and abundance data along two elevational transects in Mount Kilimanjaro, Tanzania and the Taita Hills, Kenya. We estimated the local response to land use and compared our estimates with modelled local responses based on a large database of many different taxa across Africa. To identify the local factors mediating responses to land use, we compared environmental and species assemblage information between sites in the independent and African-wide datasets. Bird species richness and abundance responses to land use in the independent data followed similar trends as suggested by the African-wide biodiversity model, however the land-use classification was too coarse to capture fully the variability introduced by local agricultural management practices. A comparison of assemblage characteristics showed that the sites on Kilimanjaro and the Taita Hills had higher proportions of forest specialists in croplands compared to the Africa-wide average. Local human population density, forest cover and vegetation greenness also differed significantly between the independent and Africa-wide datasets. Biodiversity models including those variables performed better, particularly in croplands, but still could not accurately predict the magnitude of local species responses to most land uses, probably because local features of the land management are still missed. Overall, our study demonstrates that local factors mediate biodiversity responses to land use and cautions against applying biodiversity models to local contexts without prior knowledge of which factors are locally relevant.	[Jung, M; Burgess, ND] Nat Hist Museum Denmark, Ctr Macroecol Climate & Evolut, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Hill, SLL; Burgess, ND; Newbold, T] United Nations, Environm Programme, World Conservat Monitoring Ctr, Cambridge, England; [Hill, SLL; Purvis, A] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, London, England; [Platts, PJ] Univ York, Dept Biol, York, N Yorkshire, England; [Marchant, R] Univ York, York Inst Trop Ecosyst KITE, Dept Environm, York, N Yorkshire, England; [Siebert, S] North West Univ, Unit Environm Sci & Management, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Fournier, A] MNHN, IRD, Res Unit PALOC 208, Paris, France; [Munyekenye, FB] Nat Kenya, Museum Hill, Nairobi, Kenya; [Purvis, A] Imperial Coll London, Dept Life Sci, Ascot, Berks, England; [Newbold, T] UCL, Ctr Biodivers & Environm Res, Dept Genet Evolut & Environm, London, England; [Jung, M] Univ Sussex, Sch Life Sci, Brighton BN1 9RH, E Sussex, England	Jung, M (reprint author), Nat Hist Museum Denmark, Ctr Macroecol Climate & Evolut, Copenhagen, Denmark.; Jung, M (reprint author), Univ Sussex, Sch Life Sci, Brighton BN1 9RH, E Sussex, England.	m.jung@sussex.ac.uk	Platts, Philip/C-2002-2009; publicationpage, cmec/B-4405-2017; Newbold, Tim/D-1524-2012; Purvis, Andy/A-7529-2008; Jung, Martin/C-3996-2014	Platts, Philip/0000-0002-0153-0121; Newbold, Tim/0000-0001-7361-0051; Purvis, Andy/0000-0002-8609-6204; Jung, Martin/0000-0002-7569-1390	4	23	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2017	AUG	20	4				370	381	12		FB8DG	CCC:000406368500008		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Alignier, APetit, SBohan, DA	Alignier, Audrey; Petit, Sandrine; Bohan, David A.		Relative effects of local management and landscape heterogeneity on weed richness, density, biomass and seed rain at the country-wide level, Great Britain	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Landscape composition, Landscape configuration, Management intensity, Field size, Distance to field margin, Agroecology	HERBICIDE-TOLERANT CROPS, FARM-SCALE EVALUATIONS, DIFFERENT SPATIAL SCALES, PLANT DIVERSITY, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, CEREAL FIELDS, ARABLE WEEDS, BIODIVERSITY, ABUNDANCE	Weed management is a critical issue as it is faced with a daunting set of challenges linked to crop productivity and farmland biodiversity. Developing new strategies for weed management requires a clear understanding of the relative role of local management and landscape heterogeneity on weeds. Yet few studies have investigated the combined effect of these factors on a variety of weed metrics that reconcile agronomical and ecological aims. Here, we analyzed the relative role of local management intensity and landscape heterogeneity according to the distance to field margin on four weed metrics (species richness, density, biomass and seed rain) and community composition in 257 fields (beet, maize, spring and winter rape fields) across Great Britain. Generalized mixed effect models followed by a model averaging procedure were applied on weed metrics and permutational multivariate analyses of variance were applied on weed species composition. Our analysis confirmed the overriding role of the distance to field margin on weeds. Although weed density and seed rain negatively responded to local management intensity, they did not respond in the same way to landscape configurational heterogeneity, namely the field size. We found interactions between management intensity and landscape heterogeneity but only in relation to weed biomass in beet and spring rape fields and to seed rain in beet fields. The relative importance of local management intensity and landscape heterogeneity varied depending on the distance to field margin, which can be attributed to spatial heterogeneity in management practices. We recommend that not only species richness but also a wide range of metrics should be considered in weed studies as they did not responded in the same way to local and landscape factors. We conclude that weed management strategies should be thought by integrating a multi-level approach as the combined effects of local management and landscape heterogeneity are likely to both reduce weed infestation whilst enhancing biodiversity.	[Alignier, A] INRA, UMR 0980 BAGAP, CS 84215, F-35042 Rennes, France; [Petit, S; Bohan, DA] INRA, UMR 1347 Agroecol, BP 86510, F-21000 Dijon, France	Alignier, A (reprint author), INRA, UMR 0980 BAGAP, CS 84215, F-35042 Rennes, France.	audrey.alignier@inra.fr	petit, Sandrine/C-3310-2013; Bohan, David/	petit, Sandrine/0000-0001-8781-8873; Bohan, David/0000-0001-5656-775X	5	42	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2017	AUG	246					12	20	9		FB2KP	CCC:000405973000002					2019-04-10J	Bonari, GFajmon, KMalenovsky, IZeleny, DHolusa, JJongepierova, IKocarek, PKonvicka, OUricar, JChytry, M	Bonari, Gianmaria; Fajmon, Karel; Malenovsky, Igor; Zeleny, David; Holusa, Jaroslav; Jongepierova, Ivana; Kocarek, Petr; Konvicka, Ondrej; Uricar, Jan; Chytry, Milan		Management of semi-natural grasslands benefiting both plant and insect diversity: The importance of heterogeneity and tradition	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Carabidae, Conservation management, Lepidoptera, Orthoptera, Species richness, Vascular plant	GROUND BEETLES COLEOPTERA, CALCAREOUS GRASSLANDS, GRAZING INTENSITY, BUTTERFLY COMMUNITIES, ORTHOPTERA DIVERSITY, SPECIES RICHNESS, HABITAT MANAGEMENT, LANDSCAPE FACTORS, VASCULAR PLANTS, CARABID BEETLES	Biodiversity of semi-natural grasslands depends on the management practices used. However, management systems suitable for one taxon, such as plants, can be detrimental to other taxa, such as insects, and vice versa. This study attempts to support conservation management planning by clarifying the effects of different grassland management practices on species richness and species composition of vascular plants, butterflies, moths, orthopterans and ground beetles, also taking into account the effects of climate and the landscape context. The study was performed in the White Carpathians Protected Landcape Area and UNESCO Biosphere Reserve (Czech Republic), which is famous for its grasslands with the globally highest fine-scale plant species richness. Different management practices (mowing, grazing, abandonment and mixed management; the latter including the previous three) were applied for at least five consecutive years at 34 sites, where plants and different insect groups were subsequently sampled. Effects of management on species richness of different taxonomic groups were assessed using generalised linear models, whereas the effects on species composition were assessed using redundancy analysis. Management influenced plant, butterfly and moth species richness, but the effects of particular management practices on all species and species of regional conservation importance differed between these taxonomic groups. Plant and moth species richness increased with mowing, but moth species richness decreased with grazing. Mixed management favoured plant and butterfly richness. Plant species composition was infuenced by mowing, grazing and mixed management while that of moths by mowing and grazing. Orthopterans and ground beetles did not respond significantly to management. Our results indicate that conservation management should comprise the traditional practices that have historically contributed to the formation of the biological diversity of the semi-natural grasslands in the study area. In particular, grazing may not be optimal for traditional hay-meadows and mowing should be carried out similarly as in pre-intensive farmland, creating spatio-temporal heterogeneity rather than uniformly cutting large grassland areas during a short period. In general, the optimal management should be heterogeneous, applying different practices in a mosaic or at different times during the season.	[Bonari, G] Univ Siena, Dept Life Sci, Via PA Mattioli 4, I-53100 Siena, Italy; [Bonari, G; Malenovsky, I; Zeleny, D; Chytry, M] Masaryk Univ, Dept Bot & Zool, Kotlarska 2, CS-61137 Brno, Czech Republic; [Fajmon, K; Jongepierova, I; Uricar, J] Local Chapter Bile Karpaty, Czech Union Nat Conservat, Bartolomejske Namesti 47, Veseli Nad Moravou 69801, Czech Republic; [Fajmon, K; Jongepierova, I] Reg Off Protected Landscape Area Author Bile Karp, Nat Conservat Agcy Czech Republ, Nadrazni 318, Luhacovice 76326, Czech Republic; [Zeleny, D] Natl Taiwan Univ, Inst Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Roosevelt Rd 1, Taipei 10617, Taiwan; [Holusa, J] Czech Univ Life Sci, Dept Forest Protect & Entomol, Kamycka 129, Prague 16500, Czech Republic; [Kocarek, P] Univ Ostrava, Dept Biol & Ecol, Chittussiho 10, Ostrava 71000, Czech Republic; [Konvicka, O] Czech Acad Sci, Inst Entomol, Biol Ctr, Branisovska 31, Ceske Budejovice 37005, Czech Republic	Bonari, G (reprint author), Univ Siena, Dept Life Sci, Via PA Mattioli 4, I-53100 Siena, Italy.	gianmaria.bonari@gmail.com	Bonari, Gianmaria/L-2245-2016; Malenovsky, Igor/F-3969-2019; Chytry, Milan/J-4954-2012; Zeleny, David/	Bonari, Gianmaria/0000-0002-5574-6067; Malenovsky, Igor/0000-0001-8840-2263; Chytry, Milan/0000-0002-8122-3075; Zeleny, David/0000-0001-5157-044X	18	105	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2017	AUG	246					243	252	10		FB2KP	CCC:000405973000026					2019-04-10J	Dominik, CSeppelt, RHorgan, FGMarquez, LSettele, JVaclavik, T	Dominik, Christophe; Seppelt, Ralf; Horgan, Finbarr G.; Marquez, Leonardo; Settele, Josef; Vaclavik, Tomas		Regional-scale effects override the influence of fine-scale landscape heterogeneity on rice arthropod communities	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Biodiversity, Community assembly, Regional-scale effects, Habitat simplification, Landscape heterogeneity, Pest control	TEREBRANS HYMENOPTERA-ICHNEUMONIDAE, SPECIES RICHNESS, NATURAL ENEMIES, ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, INVERTEBRATE BIODIVERSITY, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, POPULATION-DYNAMICS, HABITAT MANAGEMENT, BIOLOGICAL-CONTROL, BROWN PLANTHOPPER	Irrigated rice croplands are among the most biologically diverse agroecosystems globally; however, intensification and simplification of farmed areas into homogeneous monocultures can lead to biodiversity loss and a reduction of associated ecosystem services such as natural pest regulation. Understanding how landscape heterogeneity affects the diversity of arthropod communities is therefore crucial for the sustainable management of rice agroecosystems. Here, we examine the influence of fine-scale landscape heterogeneity and regional-scale effects on the arthropod communities of three rice-production regions in the Philippines. Our analysis of 213 arthropod morphospecies (37,339 individuals) collected using two sampling methods at 28 field sites indicated that the rice agroecosystems in each study region had unique arthropod assemblages, likely reflecting region specific environmental and land-use conditions. For all sites together, we found no effect of fine-scale landscape context (classified as rather high or low heterogeneity sites) on assemblage structure (arthropod abundance, species richness or diversity). When assemblages were analyzed separately, significant effects of fine-scale landscape context were only detected in one region and for two functional groups (predators and detritivores). Elevation gradient, used as a proxy for regional-scale effects in the study regions, explained more than 60% of variance in assemblage structure. Total arthropod abundance and rarefied species richness were negatively related to elevation, suggesting that regional-scale effects rather than fine-scale landscape heterogeneity explained the composition of rice-arthropod communities in landscapes. To further disentangle the complex effects of broad-scale environmental drivers versus fine-scale landscape complexity on arthropod communities and biocontrol services, future research in rice agroecosystems should focus on a more detailed quantification of landscape heterogeneity and examine its effect at multiple spatial scales.	[Dominik, C; Seppelt, R; Vaclavik, T] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Computat Landscape Ecol, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany; [Seppelt, R; Settele, J] iDiv German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res, D-04103 Halle, Germany; [Seppelt, R] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Geosci & Geog, D-06099 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Horgan, FG] Int Rice Res Inst, DAPO Box 7777, Manila, Philippines; [Horgan, FG] Univ Technol Sydney, Ctr Compassionate Conservat, 15 Broadway, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia; [Marquez, L] Philippine Rice Res Inst, Crop Protect Div, Munoz, Nueva Ecija, Philippines; [Settele, J] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Community Ecol, D-06120 Halle, Germany; [Settele, J] Univ Philippines Los Banos, Inst Biol Sci, College Los Banos 4031, Laguna, Philippines; [Vaclavik, T] Palacky Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Fac Sci, Olomouc 78371, Czech Republic	Dominik, C (reprint author), UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Computat Landscape Ecol, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany.	christophe.dominik@ufz.de	Seppelt, Ralf/E-6056-2010; Vaclavik, Tomas/B-4668-2013; Dominik, Christophe/	Seppelt, Ralf/0000-0002-2723-7150; Vaclavik, Tomas/0000-0002-1113-6320; Dominik, Christophe/0000-0001-6310-1632	2	16	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2017	AUG	246					269	278	10		FB2KP	CCC:000405973000029		Other Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Botsch, YTablado, ZJenni, L	Boetsch, Yves; Tablado, Zulima; Jenni, Lukas		Experimental evidence of human recreational disturbance effects on bird-territory establishment	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES			English	Article	Life Sciences (LS)	EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	forest birds, nesting guild, foraging guild, flight-initiation distance, nature-based activities, outdoor recreation	NONCONSUMPTIVE RECREATION, PROTECTED AREAS, DENSITY, POPULATION, RESPONSES, BEHAVIOR, ABUNDANCE, RICHNESS, DECLINES, WILDLIFE	The worldwide increase in human outdoor activities raises concerns for wildlife. Human disturbances, even at low levels, are likely to impact species during sensitive periods of the annual cycle. However, experimental studies during the putative sensitive period of territory establishment of birds which not only investigate low disturbance levels, but which also exclude the effect of habitat modification (e.g. walking trails) are lacking. Here, we experimentally disturbed birds in forest plots by walking through twice a day during territory establishment. Later we compared the breeding bird community of experimentally disturbed plots with that of undisturbed control plots. We discovered that the number of territories (-15.0%) and species richness (-15.2%) in disturbed plots were substantially reduced compared with control plots. Species most affected included those sensitive to human presence (assessed by flight-initiation distances), open-cup nesters and above-ground foragers. Long-distance migrants, however, were unaffected due to their arrival after experimental disturbance took place. These findings highlight how territory establishment is a sensitive period for birds, when even low levels of human recreation may be perceived as threatening, and alter settlement decisions. This can have important implications for the conservation of species, which might go unnoticed when focusing only on already established birds.	[Botsch, Y; Tablado, Z; Jenni, L] Swiss Ornithol Inst, Seerose 1, CH-6204 Sempach, Switzerland; [Botsch, Y] Univ Zurich, Inst Evolutionary Biol & Environm Studies, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland	Botsch, Y (reprint author), Swiss Ornithol Inst, Seerose 1, CH-6204 Sempach, Switzerland.; Botsch, Y (reprint author), Univ Zurich, Inst Evolutionary Biol & Environm Studies, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.	yves.boetsch@vogelwarte.ch		Botsch, Yves/0000-0001-9171-8752	2	51	ROYAL SOC	LONDON	6-9 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, LONDON SW1Y 5AG, ENGLAND	http://royalsocietypublishing.org/journals	0962-8452		P ROY SOC B-BIOL SCI	Proc. R. Soc. B-Biol. Sci.	2017	JUL	284	1858				70846	70846	8		FB2FC	CCC:000405958600020	28701563				2019-04-10J	Duckworth, RAHallinger, KKHall, NPotticary, AL	Duckworth, Renee A.; Hallinger, Kelly K.; Hall, Nerissa; Potticary, Ahva L.		Switch to a Novel Breeding Resource Influences Coexistence of Two Passerine Birds	FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	successional dynamics, species replacement, interference competition, competitive dominance, colonization, resource heterogeneity	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, INTERFERENCE COMPETITION, TRADE-OFFS, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, TREE CAVITIES, URBAN, COMMUNITIES, HABITAT, SITES, DISPERSAL	A crucial step in adapting to urban habitat is switching to novel, often man-made, resources. Switching to a novel resource can influence the dynamics of species coexistence, particularly if it alters trade-offs in performance. While such switches are frequently documented, their influence on species coexistence has been difficult to assess because it requires knowledge of performance trade-offs in the context of both historical and novel resource use. Western and mountain bluebirds provide a unique system in which to investigate the effects of a resource switch on species coexistence because both depend on secondary nest cavities to breed and, across a large part of their range, have switched to using man-made nest boxes. Western bluebirds are less dispersive, but more aggressive, than mountain bluebirds leading to a successional pattern of species replacement in many nest box populations; however, there is evidence of continued coexistence in natural post-fire habitat. Nest boxes differ from natural cavities in both distribution, which may affect the dynamics of interference competition between the species, and thermal conductance, which may impact competition by altering survival of ectothermic young. Here, we use a combination of experimental manipulations of nest box density and more than a decade of fitness and incubation temperature data to investigate whether altered resource distribution or thermal environment best explain patterns of species replacement in nest box populations. In both species, we found that females breeding in nest boxes were unable to maintain normal incubation temperatures during inclement weather and experienced similar offspring mortality patterns. Moreover, climatic variation across populations did not predict species' relative abundance. Instead, experimental manipulation of nest box density showed that mountain bluebirds persisted longer when nest boxes were distributed farther apart, suggesting that nest box distribution may be a key factor in understanding how human-created habitat impacts coexistence of bluebird species. These results emphasize that knowledge of species interactions in the historical habitat is crucial to understanding population dynamics as species transition to novel, man-made habitat.	[Duckworth, RA; Hallinger, KK; Hall, N; Potticary, AL] Univ Arizona, Dept Ecol & Evolut Biol, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA	Duckworth, RA (reprint author), Univ Arizona, Dept Ecol & Evolut Biol, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA.	rad3@email.arizona.edu			0	0	FRONTIERS MEDIA SA	LAUSANNE	AVENUE DU TRIBUNAL FEDERAL 34, LAUSANNE, CH-1015, SWITZERLAND	http://frontiersin.org	2296-701X		FRONT ECOL EVOL	Front. Ecol. Evol.	2017	JUL	5					72	72	11		HC1SP	CCC:000451583100001		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Winiarski, JMMoorman, CECarpenter, JPHess, GR	Winiarski, Jason M.; Moorman, Christopher E.; Carpenter, John P.; Hess, George R.		Reproductive consequences of habitat fragmentation for a declining resident bird of the longleaf pine ecosystem	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bachman's Sparrow, dispersal, fire, fragmentation, habitat amount, landscape, longleaf pine, North Carolina, pairing success, reproductive success	NORTH-AMERICAN SONGBIRD, MALE BACHMANS SPARROWS, FOREST FRAGMENTATION, PAIRING SUCCESS, DEMOGRAPHIC RESPONSES, LANDSCAPE OCCUPANCY, RELATIVE IMPORTANCE, HOME-RANGE, SEX-RATIOS, DISPERSAL	Habitat loss and fragmentation are major threats to bird population persistence. Yet, our understanding of the demographic factors behind the adverse effects of fragmentation remains limited for many species. We studied the breeding demographics of the Bachman's Sparrow Peucaea aestivalis), a species of conservation concern that is associated with highly imperiled longleaf pine ecosystems in the southeastern United States. We quantified the effects of local-and landscape-scale factors on different components of reproductive success i.e., pairing success and probability of fledging offspring) for 96 male sparrows at eight sites in southeastern North Carolina. Pairing success of monitored sparrows was 69%, and 77% of paired males fledged >= 1 offspring. Habitat amount in the surrounding landscape, rather than local habitat quality, was the most influential predictor of pairing success for male Bachman's Sparrows. In contrast, we documented no predictors of successfully fledging offspring for paired males. We infer that reduced pairing success is limiting reproduction in isolated landscapes and may be a contributing factor for the low occupancy and declines of Bachman's Sparrow in our study region. Overall, our results suggest that managers can promote breeding opportunities for Bachman's Sparrows by prioritizing resources to patches near large, preexisting longleaf pine forest to ensure >= 20% habitat within the surrounding landscape.	[Winiarski, JM; Moorman, CE; Hess, GR] North Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Dept Forestry & Environm Resources, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Carpenter, JP] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, 1751 Varsity Dr, Raleigh, NC 27606 USA	Winiarski, JM (reprint author), North Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Dept Forestry & Environm Resources, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA.	jmwiniarski@gmail.com			4	17	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2017	JUL	8	7				1898	1898	13		FB7PL	CCC:000406332400028		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Byers, CMRibic, CASample, DWDadisman, JDGuttery, MR	Byers, Carolyn M.; Ribic, Christine A.; Sample, David W.; Dadisman, John D.; Guttery, Michael R.		Grassland Bird Productivity in Warm Season Grass Fields in Southwest Wisconsin	AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM, BIOMASS ENERGY CROP, NEST SURVIVAL, BREEDING BIRDS, UNITED-STATES, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPE, HARVESTING SWITCHGRASS, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, HENSLOWS SPARROWS, NORTH-DAKOTA	Surrogate grasslands established through federal set-aside programs, such as U.S. Department of Agriculture's Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), provide important habitat for grassland birds. Warm season grass CRP fields as a group have the potential for providing a continuum of habitat structure for breeding birds, depending on how the fields are managed and their floristic composition. We studied the nesting activity of four obligate grassland bird species, Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus), Eastern Meadowlark (Sturnella magna), Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), and Henslow's Sparrow (A. henslowii), in relation to vegetative composition and fire management in warm season CRP fields in southwest Wisconsin during 2009-2011. Intraspecific variation in apparent nest density was related to the number of years since the field was burned. Apparent Grasshopper Sparrow nest density was highest in the breeding season immediately following spring burns, apparent Henslow's Sparrow nest density was highest 1 y post burn, and apparent Bobolink and Eastern Meadowlark nest densities were higher in post fire years one to three. Grasshopper Sparrow nest density was highest on sites with more diverse vegetation, specifically prairie forbs, and on sites with shorter less dense vegetation. Bobolink, Eastern Meadowlark, and Henslow's Sparrow apparent nest densities were higher on sites with deeper litter; litter was the vegetative component that was most affected by spring burns. Overall nest success was 0.487 for Bobolink (22 d nesting period), 0.478 for Eastern Meadowlark (25 d nesting period), 0.507 for Grasshopper Sparrow (22 d nesting period), and 0.151 for Henslow's Sparrow (21 d nesting period). The major nest predators were grassland-associated species: thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Ictidomys tridecemlineatus), striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis), milk snake (Lampropeltis triangulum), American badger (Taxidea taxus), and western fox snake (Elaphe vulpina). Overall depredation rate was not affected by the number of years since the site had been burned. The diversity of vegetation on warm season CRP fields created by management using fire provides a continuum of structure for obligate grassland birds to use for breeding and habitat for a diversity of nest predators.	[Byers, CM] Univ Wisconsin, Wisconsin Cooperat Wildlife Res Unit, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Ribic, CA] Univ Wisconsin, US Geol Survey, Wisconsin Cooperat Wildlife Res Unit, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Sample, DW] Wisconsin Dept Nat Resources, Div Fish Wildlife & Pk, Madison, WI 53707 USA; [Dadisman, JD] Wisconsin Dept Nat Resources, Sci Serv, Madison, WI 53716 USA; [Guttery, MR] Alaska Dept Fish & Game, Palmer, AK 99645 USA; [Byers, CM] Madison Audubon Soc, Madison, WI 53703 USA	Ribic, CA (reprint author), Univ Wisconsin, US Geol Survey, Wisconsin Cooperat Wildlife Res Unit, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA.	caribic@wisc.edu			2	21	AMER MIDLAND NATURALIST	NOTRE DAME	UNIV NOTRE DAME, BOX 369, ROOM 295 GLSC, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 USA	http://www.allenpress.com	0003-0031		AM MIDL NAT	Am. Midl. Nat.	2017	JUL	178	1				47	63	17	10.1674/0003-0031-178.1.47	FA6RB	CCC:000405570500005					2019-04-10J	Vali, UTuvi, JSein, G	Vali, Ulo; Tuvi, Joosep; Sein, Gunnar		Agricultural land use shapes habitat selection, foraging and reproductive success of the Lesser Spotted Eagle Clanga pomarina	JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Conservation, Foraging, Grassland, Habitat, Raptor, Sustainable agriculture	AQUILA-POMARINA, POPULATION DECLINE, PREY ABUNDANCE, CLIMATE-CHANGE, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, LANDSCAPES, POLAND, INTENSIFICATION, PREDATORS	Anthropogenic loss of biodiversity is often indicated by the disappearance of top predators. However, some of them have adapted to man-made agricultural landscapes. Among raptors, one such example is the Lesser Spotted Eagle. We compiled an exhaustive data set on foraging habitat composition of this species by direct field mapping and detailed land cover maps to study the effect of various agricultural management practices on its occupancy of home ranges and productivity, as well as on its habitat utilization and hunting success. Home ranges of the Lesser Spotted Eagle contained more natural grasslands (7.6%) and other agricultural biotopes (29.9%) than expected by random, and they preferred to breed close to managed agricultural biotopes. They hunted preferably on grasslands, where they spent 86% of their time, especially on managed grasslands, but avoided arable fields. In total, 51% of the Lesser Spotted Eagle attacks were successful, and we detected no differences in hunting success among habitats. Nests of successfully breeding birds were surrounded by more crops/cultivated grassland on a rotational basis (19.0%), as well as by managed natural grassland (1.1%), than those of unsuccessful pairs (16 and 0.7%, respectively). We also detected a negative impact of oilseed rape fields and mowed cultivated grassland on the reproductive success of the Lesser Spotted Eagle, but these effects were not consistent over the years. Our results suggest that, although the Lesser Spotted Eagle is well adapted to foraging in traditional farmland, it is threatened by changes in agricultural practices and an increasing sown area of some crops, such as oilseed rape. Cultivation of various crops and retaining of grasslands, interspersed with set-aside and non-agricultural habitat patches, promoted by the European Union greening policy, would be favourable to the Lesser Spotted Eagle.	[Vali, U] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Dept Zool, Kreutzwaldi 5-D044, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia; [Vali, U; Tuvi, J; Sein, G] Eagle Club, EE-63406 Valgjarve Vald, Polvamaa, Estonia; [Sein, G] Environm Board, Roheline 64, EE-80010 Parnu, Estonia	Vali, U (reprint author), Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Dept Zool, Kreutzwaldi 5-D044, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia.; Vali, U (reprint author), Eagle Club, EE-63406 Valgjarve Vald, Polvamaa, Estonia.	ulo.vali@emu.ee	Vali, Ulo/G-8253-2017	Vali, Ulo/0000-0002-2247-0658	3	20	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0021-8375		J ORNITHOL	J. Ornithol.	2017	JUL	158	3				841	850	10		EY8HX	CCC:000404236700022					2019-04-10J	Dylewski, LKurek, PWiatrowska, BJerzak, LTryjanowski, P	Dylewski, Lukasz; Kurek, Przemyslaw; Wiatrowska, Blanka; Jerzak, Leszek; Tryjanowski, Piotr		Man-made perching sites - electricity pylons accelerate fleshy-fruited plants succession in farmlands	FLORA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Ornitochory, Plant regeneration, Fleshy-fruited plant, Alien plant, Farmland	POSTDISPERSAL SEED PREDATION, OLD FIELD VEGETATION, INTENSIVE FARMLAND, SPECIES RICHNESS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, PRUNUS-SEROTINA, DISPERSAL, LANDSCAPE, DIVERSITY, FOREST	Electricity pylons and power lines in an agricultural environment serve as artificial perching sites for many birds. For this reason, seeds of fleshy-fruited plant species are predominantly deposited in these places. In the present study we show that electricity pylons may play an important role in the succession of fleshy fruited shrubs and trees in intensive farmland. The aim of the study was to evaluate the importance of electricity pylons as artificial perching sites and thus as important locations enabling earlier succession and colonisation by fleshy-fruited plant species. The study was conducted during June and July 2013 in the Wielkopolska province of western Poland in intensive farmland with numerous small isolated forest patches. In total, we found 22 fleshy-fruited and 10 dry-fruited tree and shrub species under electricity pylons, of which 30% were alien species. The density of fleshy-fruited species under pylons was significantly higher in comparison with control plots, in which 85% of tree and shrub species were alien species. Padus serotina and Sambucus nigra were the species most frequently found under pylons. Plants of non-endozoochorous origin (i.e. anemochorous Pinus sylvestris, Betula pendula) were fewer in number. As a result, the share of fleshy-fruited species was much greater than those of wind-dispersed pioneer species. This is because fleshy-fruited species are able, thanks to artificial perching sites, to appear earlier than they would under natural conditions, in which these species follow the expansion and development of pioneer anemochorous species acting as natural perching sites. The presence of the electricity pylons compensates for a lack of natural perching sites in a homogenous landscape under intensive agriculture. (C) 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	[Dylewski, L; Tryjanowski, P] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Inst Zool, Wojska Polskiego 71C, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland; [Kurek, P] Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Dept Plant Ecol & Environm Protect, Umultowska 89, PL-61614 Poznan, Poland; [Wiatrowska, B] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Dept Forest Bot, Wojska Polskiego 71D, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland; [Jerzak, L] Univ Zielona Gora, Fac Biol Sci, Prof Szafrana 1, PL-65516 Zielona Gora, Poland	Dylewski, L (reprint author), Poznan Univ Life Sci, Inst Zool, Wojska Polskiego 71C, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland.	dylewski91@gmail.com		Tryjanowski, Piotr/0000-0002-8358-0797; , Przemyslaw/0000-0002-5366-3057	0	6	ELSEVIER GMBH, URBAN & FISCHER VERLAG	JENA	OFFICE JENA, P O BOX 100537, 07705 JENA, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	0367-2530		FLORA	Flora	2017	JUN	231					51	56	6		FO3MJ	CCC:000416734900007					2019-04-10J	Burke, ADThompson, FRFaaborg, J	Burke, Alicia D.; Thompson, Frank R., III; Faaborg, John		VARIATION IN EARLY-SUCCESSIONAL HABITAT USE AMONG INDEPENDENT JUVENILE FOREST BREEDING BIRDS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	early-successional habitat, habitat use, juvenile, Ovenbird, radio-tracking, Red-eyed Vireo, Wonn-eating Warbler	OVENBIRDS SEIURUS-AUROCAPILLA, MISSOURI OZARK FORESTS, COVER-TYPE SELECTION, POSTFLEDGING PERIOD, FLEDGLING OVENBIRDS, REGENERATING CLEARCUTS, POSTBREEDING PERIOD, SWAINSONS THRUSHES, HOME-RANGE, SURVIVAL	Adults and juveniles of some forest breeding birds shift habitat use during the post breeding season from late to early successional forest. Juveniles of smaller passerine species are difficult to radio-track, and there is limited information on their habitat preferences, especially once they become older and independent. We determined if independent hatch-year birds captured in early-successional habitat remained there for extended periods, or if these habitats were only occupied infrequently during foraging activities. We determined habitat use for Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapilla), Worm-eating Warblers (Helmitheros vermivorum) and Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus) during the independent post-fledging period in the Missouri Ozarks. We placed radio transmitters on 29 hatch-year birds captured in clearcuts and attempted to relocate them for 24 days in the summer of 2012. All three species had a greater relative probability of use of clearcut forest stands with small trees than older forests. Ovenbirds and Worm-eating Warblers remained in the early-successional habitat where initially captured, whereas Red-eyed Vireos used both late and early-successional habitat. Management efforts have primarily focused on breeding habitat for migratory songbirds, but the post-breeding period could be equally important given that hatch-year birds can spend an equal or greater amount of time in this stage. More information is needed to determine how widespread this habitat shill is for mature forest-breeding birds.	[Burke, AD; Faaborg, J] Univ Missouri, Div Biol Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Thompson, FR] Univ Missouri, US Forest Serv, USDA, Northern Res Stn, Columbia, MO USA; [Burke, AD] 3602 Timber Run Dr, Columbia, MO 65203 USA	Burke, AD (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Div Biol Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.; Burke, AD (reprint author), 3602 Timber Run Dr, Columbia, MO 65203 USA.	alicia.d.burke@gmail.com			4	19	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2017	JUN	129	2				235	246	12	10.1676/15-055.1	EZ7CN	CCC:000404877900001					2019-04-10J	Archibald, CLMcKinney, MMustin, KShanahan, DFPossingham, HP	Archibald, Carla L.; McKinney, Matthew; Mustin, Karen; Shanahan, Danielle F.; Possingham, Hugh P.		Assessing the impact of revegetation and weed control on urban sensitive bird species	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bayesian, hierarchical community model, urban conservation, urban restoration, urban sensitive species	AVIAN ASSEMBLAGES, DIVERSITY, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPES, COMMUNITY, HABITAT, FOREST, BIODIVERSITY, RESTORATION, ECOSYSTEMS	Nature in cities is concentrated in urban green spaces, which are key areas for urban biodiversity and also important areas to connect people with nature. To conserve urban biodiversity within these natural refugia, habitat restoration such as weed control and revegetation is often implemented. These actions are expected to benefit biodiversity, although species known to be affected by urbanization may not be interacting with restoration in the ways we anticipate. In this study, we use a case study to explore how urban restoration activities impact different bird species. Birds were grouped into urban sensitivity categories and species abundance, and richness was then calculated using a hierarchical species community model for individual species responses, with urban class used as the hierarchical parameter. We highlight variable responses of birds to revegetation and weed control based on their level of urban sensitivity. Revegetation of open grassy areas delivers significant bird conservation outcomes, but the effects of weed control are neutral or in some cases negative. Specifically, the species most reliant on remnant vegetation in cities seem to remain stable or decline in abundance in areas with weed control, which we suspect is the result of a simplification of the understorey. The literature reports mixed benefits of weed control between taxa and between locations. We recommend, in our case study site, that weed control be implemented in concert with replanting of native vegetation to provide the understory structure preferred by urban sensitive birds. Understanding the impacts of revegetation and weed control on different bird species is important information for practitioners to make restoration decisions about the allocation of funds for conservation action. This new knowledge can be used both for threatened species and invasive species management.	[Archibald, CL; McKinney, M; Mustin, K; Shanahan, DF; Possingham, HP] Univ Queensland, Sch Biol Sci, Ctr Biodivers & Conservat Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Possingham, HP] Imperial Coll London, Sch Life Sci, Ascot SL5 7PY, Berks, England	Archibald, CL (reprint author), Univ Queensland, Sch Biol Sci, Ctr Biodivers & Conservat Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.	carla.archibald@uqconnect.edu.au			4	25	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2045-7758		ECOL EVOL	Ecol. Evol.	2017	JUN	7	12				4200	4208	9		EY3PN	CCC:000403884700013	28649333	DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Wu, FLiu, LMFang, JLZhang, RGYang, XJ	Wu, Fei; Liu, Luming; Fang, Jianling; Zhang, Rengong; Yang, Xiaojun		Conservation value of human-modified forests for birds in mountainous regions of south-west China	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		HUMAN-MODIFIED WORLD, SPECIES RICHNESS, POINT COUNTS, MIST NETS, ELEVATIONAL GRADIENT, PENINSULAR MALAYSIA, INSECTIVOROUS BIRDS, RUBBER PLANTATIONS, SECONDARY FORESTS, CENTRAL SULAWESI	Mountain systems are often recognised as biodiversity hotspots; however, most montane forests are human-modified. Understanding the conservation value of human-modified forests is essential to mountain biodiversity conservation. In this study, mist-nets and point-counts were used to compare the bird communities of primary forests on ridges in the Ailao Mountains of Yunnan, China, and secondary forests, firewood forests, and pine plantations in nearby lower elevation zones. We found that community turnover among habitats was very high using both methods. Although the percentage of forest interior species and insectivores in each habitat was higher in the primary forests than in the human-modified forests, relatively high percentages of forest interior species and insectivores were recorded in the human-modified forests. Moreover, many bird species, forest interior species, insectivores and babblers were only recorded in the human-modified forests. Our study indicated that the primary forests are important for sustaining mountain bird diversity. However, given that primary forests are restricted to ridges, secondary forests, firewood forests, and pine plantations at lower elevations also play important roles in bird conservation in mountainous regions by increasing landscape diversity and partially offsetting species loss from primary forests. Therefore, conservation efforts should also be concentrated on human-modified forests at lower elevations in mountainous regions in south-west China.	[Wu, F; Yang, XJ] Chinese Acad Sci, Kunming Inst Zool, State Key Lab Genet Resources & Evolut, Eastern Jiaochang Rd 32, Kunming 650223, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Liu, LM] Chinese Acad Sci, Kunming Inst Zool, Kunming Nat Hist Museum Zool, Eastern Jiaochang Rd 32, Kunming 650223, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Fang, JL] Shuangbai Ailaoshan Nat Reserve Management Burea, Shuangbai 675107, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, RG] Nat Reserve Management Bur Chuxiong Prefecture Yu, Chuxiong 675000, Yunnan, Peoples R China	Yang, XJ (reprint author), Chinese Acad Sci, Kunming Inst Zool, State Key Lab Genet Resources & Evolut, Eastern Jiaochang Rd 32, Kunming 650223, Yunnan, Peoples R China.	yangxj@mail.kiz.ac.cn			1	8	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2017	JUN	27	2				187	203	17		EV2JA	CCC:000401580200003					2019-04-10J	Rega-Brodsky, CCNilon, CH	Rega-Brodsky, Christine C.; Nilon, Charles H.		Forest cover is important across multiple scales for bird communities in vacant lots	URBAN ECOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Baltimore, Greenspace, Habitat quality, Trees, Urban bird community	SPECIES-DIVERSITY, LAND-USE, SPATIAL HETEROGENEITY, URBAN LAND, HABITAT, ABUNDANCE, GRADIENT, ENVIRONMENT, VEGETATION, LANDSCAPE	Urban vacant lots can vary considerably in their vegetation structure, from dense, shrubby habitats to wooded remnant fragments that may provide habitat for a variety of birds. By identifying which features promote diverse bird communities, we can determine at which scale management practices should focus and the necessary habitat structure and composition features. We surveyed 150 vacant lots throughout Baltimore, Maryland for their bird communities, lot vegetation, and landscape-level forest cover. An ordination of the bird community indicated a response to a gradient of canopy cover and canopy height at the vacant lot. We also found that forest cover within 100 m of the vacant lot was the most important predictor of abundance for five bird species of interest. Species richness was spatially autocorrelated among sites, indicating that bird communities may also be driven by species' dispersal and environmental gradients across the city. Overall, bird communities are responding to habitat features across multiple scales, from the vacant lot vegetation, to landscape-level forest cover, to city-wide dynamics. Thus, we recommend management practices to focus on increasing city-wide forest cover in order to increase species richness, yet with awareness regarding where the lot occurs within the city.	[Rega-Brodsky, CC; Nilon, CH] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, 302 Anheuser Busch Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Rega-Brodsky, CC] Pittsburg State Univ, Dept Biol, 1701 S Broadway, Pittsburg, KS 66762 USA	Rega-Brodsky, CC (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, 302 Anheuser Busch Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.; Rega-Brodsky, CC (reprint author), Pittsburg State Univ, Dept Biol, 1701 S Broadway, Pittsburg, KS 66762 USA.	cbrodsky@pittstate.edu		Rega-Brodsky, Christine/0000-0002-3483-1465	2	30	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	1083-8155		URBAN ECOSYST	Urban Ecosyst.	2017	JUN	20	3				561	571	11		EU5LY	CCC:000401074200004					2019-04-10J	Iglay, RBBuckingham, BNSeamans, TWMartin, JABlackwell, BFBelant, JLDeVault, TL	Iglay, Raymond B.; Buckingham, Bruce N.; Seamans, Thomas W.; Martin, James A.; Blackwell, Bradley F.; Belant, Jerrold L.; DeVault, Travis L.		Bird use of grain fields and implications for habitat management at airports	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Airports, Birds, Corn, Hazard mitigation, Ohio, Row crop, Soybeans, Wheat	KENNEDY-INTERNATIONAL-AIRPORT, FARMLAND BIRDS, WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT, STURNUS-VULGARIS, POPULATION-SIZE, LONG GRASS, VEGETATION, LAND, CORN, HEIGHT	Airport properties often include agricultural land cover that can attract wildlife species hazardous to aircraft, despite recommendations against row crops near air operations areas. However, few studies have directly quantified bird use of corn, wheat, and soybean fields relative to bird-aircraft collision (strike) hazard levels to support land cover recommendations. Therefore, we compared bird use among corn, wheat and soybean fields and predicted that corn and wheat would attract bird species recognized as hazardous to aviation. We also anticipated that soybeans would pose minimal attraction to such birds. Here, hazard ranking (low to extremely high) reflects the percentage of strikes involving a species that resulted in damage to aircraft. We investigated bird use among 22 corn, wheat, and soybean fields near Oak Harbor, OH, using approximately weekly point transects from 2013 to 2014. We used generalized distance sampling models and analysis of variance using distance matrices to determine bird abundance and community responses to row crop land coverages and crop height. We observed 4331 birds of 40 species, with most birds observed in wheat fields (n = 2555 birds) and standing stubble (n = 2409 birds). Large flocks occurred more in corn and wheat fields than soybean fields, but soybean fields harbored greater cumulative hazard scores than corn, likely due to consistent detections of small, non-flocking birds in soybean fields. Crop type and height had greater influence on medium- and high-hazard level bird species than other hazard levels. Density of medium- and high-hazard level birds increased with increasing crop height in soybean and wheat fields with wheat fields having slightly greater densities than soybeans. Corn fields also had the greatest bird densities in the tallest crop height categories. Categories of very and extremely high-hazard level bird species were rarely detected, but their abundance peaked in crops 0-15 cm, similar to low-hazard level bird species. However, model selection results included null models for very and extremely high-hazard level bird species suggesting minimal effects. Overall, our results suggest that all three crop types can harbor birds hazardous to aircraft, and crop height can enhance bird use. Although not directly tested in our study, land management surrounding airports may benefit most from alternative land covers (e.g., biofuel crops), but additional research is necessary.	[Iglay, RB; Belant, JL] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Aquaculture, Box 9690, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Buckingham, BN; Seamans, TW; Blackwell, BF; DeVault, TL] USDA, Anim & Plant Hlth Inspect Serv, Wildlife Serv, Natl Wildlife Res Ctr, 6100 Columbus Ave, Sandusky, OH 44870 USA; [Martin, JA] Univ Georgia, Savannah River Ecol Lab, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Warnell 3 Room 320,180 East Green St, Athens, GA 30602 USA	Iglay, RB (reprint author), Mississippi State Univ, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Aquaculture, Box 9690, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA.	ray.iglay@msstate.edu		DeVault, Travis/0000-0001-6413-1104	1	12	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2017	MAY	242					34	42	9		EX2CP	CCC:000403033400005		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DBWood, JMacGregor, CHobbs, RJCatford, JA	Lindenmayer, David B.; Wood, Jeff; MacGregor, Christopher; Hobbs, Richard J.; Catford, Jane A.		Non-target impacts of weed control on birds, mammals, and reptiles	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	animal response to weed control, Bitou Bush, fire management, herbicide impact on animals, indirect impacts, invasive alien plant management, non-target impacts, off-target impacts, secondary effects, weed control, weed management impacts	MONILIFERA SSP ROTUNDATA, NEW-SOUTH-WALES, NATIVE PLANT-COMMUNITIES, BITOU BUSH, FUNCTIONAL DIVERSITY, EASTERN BRISTLEBIRD, MANAGEMENT, FIRE, AUSTRALIA, RESPONSES	The impacts of invasive plant control on native animals are rarely evaluated. Using data from an eight-year study in southeastern Australia, we quantified the effects on native bird, mammal, and reptile species of (1) the abundance of the invasive Bitou Bush, Chrysanthemoides monilifera ssp. rotundata, and (2) a Bitou Bush control program, which involved repeated herbicide spraying interspersed with prescribed burning. We found that overall species richness of birds, mammals, and reptiles and the majority of individual vertebrate species were unresponsive to Bitou Bush cover and the number of plants. Two species including the nationally endangered Eastern Bristlebird (Dasyurus brachypterus) responded positively to measures of native vegetation cover following the control of Bitou Bush. Analyses of the effects of different components of the treatment protocol employed to control Bitou Bush revealed (1) no negative effects of spraying on vertebrate species richness; (2) negative effects of spraying on only one individual species (Scarlet Honeyeater); and (3) lower bird species richness but higher reptile species richness after fire. The occupancy of most individual vertebrates species was unaffected by burning; four species responded negatively and one positively to fire. Our study indicated that actions to remove Bitou Bush generally have few negative impacts on native vertebrates. We therefore suggest that controlling this highly invasive exotic plant species has only very limited negative impacts on vertebrate biota.	[Lindenmayer, DB; Wood, J; MacGregor, C; Catford, JA] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; Catford, JA] Australian Natl Univ, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; Wood, J; MacGregor, C] Australian Natl Univ, Nat Environm Sci Program, Threatened Species Recovery Hub, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; MacGregor, C] Australian Natl Univ, Long Term Ecol Res Network, Terr Ecosyst Res Network, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Hobbs, RJ] Univ Western Australia, Sch Plant Biol, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Hobbs, RJ] Univ Western Australia, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Catford, JA] Univ Southampton, Biol Sci, Highfield Campus, Southampton SO17 1BJ, Hants, England	Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Nat Environm Sci Program, Threatened Species Recovery Hub, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Long Term Ecol Res Network, Terr Ecosyst Res Network, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.	david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au	Hobbs, Richard/F-5883-2010; Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017; Catford, Jane/B-9578-2012	Hobbs, Richard/0000-0003-4047-3147; Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088; Catford, Jane/0000-0003-0582-5960	1	16	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2017	MAY	8	5				1804	1804	19		EW4LF	CCC:000402472300014		DOAJ Gold, Green Published, Green Accepted			2019-04-10J	Rosselli, LDe La Zerda, SCandil, J	Rosselli, Loreta; De La Zerda, Susana; Candil, Jonathan		Changes in the Avifauna of a Relict Forest in the Peri-Urban Area of Bogota Throughout Fourteen Years	ACTA BIOLOGICA COLOMBIANA			Spanish	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	birds, conservation, ecological restoration, endemism	BIODIVERSITY, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPE, DIVERSITY, BIRDS	The native vegetation of the Sabana de Bogota's flat area has been replaced by agricultural lands, pastures and urbanizations over the years. The last relict of this native vegetation is a small forest (ca 10 ha) at Hacienda Las Mercedes, in the northern border of Bogota. The forest's small size and isolation from other areas of natural vegetation have resulted in the loss of many species. The problem was exacerbated by uncontrolled growth of invasive vegetation (vines and wild blackberry). However, in recent years restorative action including control of these vegetation has been undertaken and the forest is now immerse in a natural reserve where more restorative actions are being planned. Using point count stations the authors recorded all the birds seen and heard in 2001-2002 and in 2014 in order to evaluate the changes in the bird community and estimate the effects of the restorative actions. We recorded 27 forest species in the first census and 30 in the second. The relative abundance of at least 1/3 of the species also increased indicating a positive result in the forest restoration. The results highlight the capacity of degraded ecosystems to recover and the importance of continuing the restorative actions in the reserve area.	[Rosselli, L; Candil, J] Univ Ciencias Aplicadas & Ambientales, Fac Ciencias Ambientales, Calle 222 55-37, Bogota, Colombia; [De La Zerda, S] Amer Bird Conservancy, 4249 Loudoun Ave, The Plains, VA 20198 USA	De La Zerda, S (reprint author), Amer Bird Conservancy, 4249 Loudoun Ave, The Plains, VA 20198 USA.	sdelazerda@yahoo.com			0	5	UNIV NAC COLOMBIA, FAC CIENCIAS, DEPT BIOL	BOGOTA	APARTADO AEREO 14490, BOGOTA, 00000, COLOMBIA		0120-548X		ACTA BIOL COLOMB	Acta Biol. Colomb.	2017	MAY-AUG	22	2				181	190	10		EU0VV	CCC:000400731000007		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Paillet, YArchaux, FBoulanger, VDebaive, NFuhr, MGilg, OGosselin, FGuilbert, E	Paillet, Yoan; Archaux, Frederic; Boulanger, Vincent; Debaive, Nicolas; Fuhr, Marc; Gilg, Olivier; Gosselin, Frederic; Guilbert, Eric		Snags and large trees drive higher tree microhabitat densities in strict forest reserves	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Standing deadwood, Large trees, Time since abandonment, Strict forest reserves, Cavities	SAPROXYLIC BEETLE DIVERSITY, OLD-GROWTH ATTRIBUTES, BEECH-FIR FORESTS, TEMPERATE FORESTS, SPECIES RICHNESS, STAND-SCALE, BIODIVERSITY, DEADWOOD, ECOSYSTEMS, DYNAMICS	Tree microhabitats (cavities, conks of fungi, bark features) play an important role for both rare and specialized species biodiversity; their preservation should therefore be targeted by biodiversity-friendly forest practices. However, when compared to other old-growth characteristics like deadwood or large trees, tree microhabitats have only recently been studied so related scientific knowledge is still relatively limited. Defining target values for microhabitat densities in managed forests is mostly based on expert knowledge rather than quantitative empirical data.We compared the densities of microhabitat-bearing trees between managed forests, where wood is still harvested, and strictly protected forest reserves, where harvesting has been abandoned, in 17 French forests (222 plots) located in both lowlands and mountain regions. We found that microhabitat densities are generally higher in strict forest reserves than in managed forests and that this difference is mainly driven by standing dead and large living trees. Though scarce, standing dead trees over-contribute to the difference observed while large trees played a lesser but significant role. In addition, contrary to results obtained for other old-growth characteristics (such as deadwood volumes), the difference between managed and strict forest reserves was higher in mountain than in lowland forests. For individual microhabitats, five out of eleven microhabitats in mountains and only one in lowland (woodpecker cavities) were significantly more numerous in strict forest reserves than in managed forests. Finally, total microhabitat density and density of specific microhabitats such as cavities and bark features increased with time since the last harvest. This increase was also mainly supported by standing dead microhabitat-bearing trees. Compared to previous studies in comparable contexts, the densities we estimated were generally higher; however, such comparisons could only be made for the most documented microhabitat types.Our results support the idea that management abandonment favours the abundance and diversity of microhabitats. However, microhabitat dynamics remain poorly known and only long-term monitoring will help understand underlying mechanisms of recruitment. In the meantime, our results may inspire forest managers in their application of daily biodiversity-friendly practices. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Paillet, Y; Archaux, F; Gosselin, F] Irstea, UR EFNO, F-45290 Nogent Sur Vernisson, France; [Paillet, Y; Guilbert, E] MECADEV, CNRS, UMR MNHN 7179, 57 Rue Cuvier, F-75005 Paris, France; [Boulanger, V; Debaive, N] Off Natl Forets, Dept Rech & Dev, Blvd Constance, F-77300 Fontainebleau, France; [Debaive, N; Gilg, O] Reserves Nat France, CS 67524, F-21075 Dijon, France; [Fuhr, M] Irstea, UR EMGR, 2 Rue Papeterie,BP 76, F-38402 St Martin Dheres, France	Paillet, Y (reprint author), Irstea, UR EFNO, F-45290 Nogent Sur Vernisson, France.	yoan.paillet@irstea.fr	Archaux, Frederic/M-5242-2014; GILG, Olivier/C-2588-2008; Gosselin, Frederic/	Archaux, Frederic/0000-0002-9996-0006; GILG, Olivier/0000-0002-9083-4492; Gosselin, Frederic/0000-0003-3737-106X	1	36	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2017	APR	389					176	186	11		ER5UK	CCC:000398868800018					2019-04-10J	Maphisa, DHSmit-Robinson, HUnderhill, LGAltwegg, R	Maphisa, David H.; Smit-Robinson, Hanneline; Underhill, Les G.; Altwegg, Res		Management factors affecting densities of common grassland birds of high elevation grasslands of eastern South Africa: Ingula as a case study	AVIAN RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Density and detection, Grassland birds, Grass height and cover, Hierarchical distance sampling models	NESTING SUCCESS, PRIVATE LANDS, HABITAT USE, CONSERVATION, ABUNDANCE, FIRE, BIODIVERSITY, COVER, VARIABILITY, FRANCOLINS	Background: World-wide grassland birds are in decline due to habitat loss and degradation resulting from intensive agricultural practices. Understanding how key grassland habitat attributes determine grassland bird densities is required to make appropriate conservation decisions. We examine drivers of bird densities in a South African grassland area that has been managed for biodiversity conservation with reduced grazing pressure.Methods: We estimated the density of the eight most common grassland bird species encountered in our area to evaluate the effects of recent grassland management changes on the avifauna. We collected data on birds and habitat from the austral summers of 2006/2007, 2007/2008 and 2010/2011. We used hierarchical distance sampling methods to estimate density of birds relative to two main habitat variables, i.e., grass cover and height. In addition, we used regression splines within these distance sampling models as a more flexible description of suitable ranges of grass height and cover for each species.Results: For most species, density is related to grass height and cover as expected. The African Quailfinch (Ortygospiza atricollis) and Common Quail (Coturnix coturnix) preferred relatively short and open grass. The Yellow-breasted Pipit (Anthus chloris), African Pipit (Anthus cinnamomeus) and Red-capped Lark (Calandrella cinerea) preferred short and relatively dense grass, while the Wing-snapping Cisticola (Cisticola ayresii) preferred grass of intermediate height and cover. The Cape Longclaw (Macronyx capensis) and Zitting Cisticola (Cisticola juncidis) preferred tall and dense grass. Our results agree with previous studies that grass height combined with grass cover are the most important habitat features that managers should manipulate in order to increase the density of target species. The regression splines show that the effect of these two habitat variables on density is well described by linear relationships for most species.Conclusions: This study supports previous studies suggesting that grazing and fire are important tools for management to use in order to create a mosaic of grass height and cover that would support high densities of desired species. We suggest that conservation managers of these grasslands combine fire and grazing as management tools to create suitable habitats for grassland birds in general.	[Maphisa, DH] South African Natl Biodivers Inst, Private Bag X7, ZA-7735 Claremont, South Africa; [Maphisa, DH; Altwegg, R] Univ Cape Town, Dept Stat Sci, Stat Ecol Environm & Conservat, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa; [Smit-Robinson, H] BirdLife South Africa, Private Bag X5000, ZA-2121 Parklands, South Africa; [Smit-Robinson, H] UNISA, ABEERU, Private Bag X6, ZA-1717 Florida, South Africa; [Underhill, LG] Univ Cape Town, Dept Biol Sci, Anim Demog Unit, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa; [Altwegg, R] Univ Cape Town, African Climate & Dev Initiat, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa	Maphisa, DH (reprint author), South African Natl Biodivers Inst, Private Bag X7, ZA-7735 Claremont, South Africa.; Maphisa, DH (reprint author), Univ Cape Town, Dept Stat Sci, Stat Ecol Environm & Conservat, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa.	maphisad@gmail.com			0	26	BIOMED CENTRAL LTD	LONDON	236 GRAYS INN RD, FLOOR 6, LONDON WC1X 8HL, ENGLAND	http://www.biomedcentral.com	2053-7166		AVIAN RES	Avian Res.	2017	MAR	8					5	5	13		EM7JQ	CCC:000395487700001		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Parker, TJChambers, CLMathiasen, RL	Parker, Thomas J.; Chambers, Carol L.; Mathiasen, Robert L.		DWARF MISTLETOE AND BREEDING BIRD ABUNDANCE IN PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS	WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		NORTHERN ARIZONA, WITCHES-BROOMS, MIXED-CONIFER, COMMUNITIES, COLORADO, ARCEUTHOBIUM, HABITAT, FIRE	Southwestern dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium vaginatum subsp. cryptopodum) parasitizes ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa). It can kill severely infected trees and induce the growth of dense masses of branches that can affect foraging and nesting habitat for wildlife. We tested the hypothesis that higher densities of breeding birds would be correlated with higher levels of southwestern dwarf mistletoe in ponderosa pine forests of Arizona. We estimated densities of 15 species of breeding birds and measured 26 habitat elements in 19 stands. Average dwarf mistletoe ratings (DMR) ranged from 0.0 (uninfested) to 3.7 (severely infested). Although we observed higher densities with higher infestation of dwarf mistletoe for 2 bird species and lower densities for 3 bird species, the effect of dwarf mistletoe on these was minor. Instead, higher snag density, an indirect measure of past mistletoe infestation, was a more important predictor of bird density. With greater snag size or density, the species richness and densities of 3 bird species increased. Because dwarf mistletoe infection can create snags, retaining groups of dwarf mistletoe-infected trees in ponderosa pine stands will provide a continued source of snags, which are important habitat for many wildlife species.	[Parker, TJ; Chambers, CL; Mathiasen, RL] No Arizona Univ, Sch Forestry, Box 15018, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA	Chambers, CL (reprint author), No Arizona Univ, Sch Forestry, Box 15018, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.	carol.chnambers@nau.edu			1	5	BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIV	PROVO	290 LIFE SCIENCE MUSEUM, PROVO, UT 84602 USA	http://www.lib.byu.edu/~nms/	1527-0904		WEST N AM NATURALIST	West. North Am. Naturalist	2017	MAR	77	1				40	50	11	10.3398/064.077.0106	EX9KV	CCC:000403577800005					2019-04-10J	Wang, MYe, XPLi, YFHuo, ZPLi, XYu, XP	Wang, Min; Ye, Xin-Ping; Li, Yan-fang; Huo, Zhi-ping; Li, Xia; Yu, Xiao-ping		On the sustainability of a reintroduced Crested Ibis population in Qinling Mountains, Shaanxi, Central China	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	mark-recapture, population growth rate, post-release monitoring, reintroduction, survival	NIPPONIA-NIPPON, SUCCESS, DISPERSAL, SURVIVAL, RESTORATION, WILD	Reintroduction projects aim to reestablish a self-sustaining population of an endangered species within its historical range. Adequate post-release monitoring by gathering demographic data is important to evaluate the success of a reintroduction. Survival and reproduction rates of a reintroduced population can be compared with a self-sustaining wild population to evaluate the success of a reintroduction. In early 2007, Nipponia nippon (Crested Ibis) was reintroduced into the Qinling Mountains (Shaanxi, Central China). In this study, we attempt to evaluate the demographic status of the reintroduced population. Age-specific survival rates of 56 released adults and 77 wild-born fledglings were estimated using mark-recapture data obtained from 2007 to 2014. Survival rates for the yearlings (0.599, with 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.467-0.719) were lower than the estimates from a wild population in Yangxian County, but the survival rates of the adults (0.678, with 95% CI: 0.603-0.745) were similar. The number of breeding pairs gradually increased since 2008, although breeding success (52.5%) was somewhat less than that of the wild population (67.6%). The stochastic estimation of population growth rate (1.084 with 95% CI: 1.069-1.098) and population size (5-fold increase) estimated from an age-classified Leslie matrix indicate that the reintroduced population of the Crested Ibis is more likely in regulation phase over the next 25 years. We conclude that the reintroduction of the Crested Ibis in Qinling Mountains has great promise, and progress toward a self-sustaining population has been made under some interventions. Governments, local communities, and scientists need to facilitate habitat restoration for the long-term survival of this endangered species.	[Wang, M; Ye, XP; Li, YF; Huo, ZP; Yu, XP] Shaanxi Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Xian 710119, Peoples R China; [Li, X] Reintroduct Ctr Crested Ibis, Ankang 725000, Ningshan County, Peoples R China	Yu, XP (reprint author), Shaanxi Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Xian 710119, Peoples R China.	yuxp64@163.com			5	27	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2017	MAR	25	2				261	268	8		ES1QW	CCC:000399303100013					2019-04-10J	Pritchard, KRHagar, JCShaw, DC	Pritchard, Kyle R.; Hagar, Joan C.; Shaw, David C.		Oak mistletoe (Phoradendron villosum) is linked to microhabitat availability and avian diversity in Oregon white oak (Quercus garryana) woodlands	BOTANY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	oak mistletoe, Phoradendron villosum, Quercus garryana, wildlife habitat, oak woodland, microhabitat	TREE MICROHABITATS, DWARF MISTLETOE, KEYSTONE RESOURCE, PONDEROSA PINE, DOUGLAS-FIR, DEAD WOOD, FORESTS, MANAGEMENT, BIRD, VISCACEAE	Mistletoes are parasitic or hemiparasitic flowering plants that parasitize woody plants around the globe. Important food and cover resources provided by mistletoes have been related to strong patterns of positive association between wildlife diversity and mistletoe density. Mistletoes also create microhabitat features known to be important to wildlife by causing deformations in their host trees. However, links between availability of mistletoe-formed microhabitat and wildlife diversity has not been well-studied. We investigated this relationship by quantifying microhabitat features and avian abundance and diversity related to infection by oak mistletoe (Phoradendron villosum (Nutt.) Nutt. ex Engelm.) in Oregon white oak (Quercus garryana Douglas ex Hook.). Quercus garryana woodlands support several avian species of conservation concern, so understanding the influence of mistletoe on wildlife habitat is critical. Our results suggest that (i) structural heterogeneity within tree crowns is positively associated with mistletoe load; (ii) avian species richness and abundance are positively associated with mistletoe load; and (iii) the fruit of P. villosum is an important food for Western Bluebird (Sialia mexicana) and other wildlife in late autumn and early winter. If a goal of restoration is to maintain habitat for oak-associated bird species, managers should consider the retention of some oaks hosting mistletoe.	[Pritchard, KR] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, 321 Richardson Hall, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Hagar, JC] Oregon State Univ, US Geol Survey, Forest & Rangeland Ecosyst Sci Ctr, 3200 SW Jefferson Way, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Shaw, DC] Oregon State Univ, Coll Forestry, Dept Forest Engn Resources & Management, 280 Peavy Hall, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; 2855 W 23rd Ave 6, Denver, CO 80211 USA	Hagar, JC (reprint author), Oregon State Univ, US Geol Survey, Forest & Rangeland Ecosyst Sci Ctr, 3200 SW Jefferson Way, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.	joan_hagar@usgs.gov	Shaw, David/A-1191-2018	Shaw, David/0000-0002-3898-782X	1	18	CANADIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING, NRC RESEARCH PRESS	OTTAWA	65 AURIGA DR, SUITE 203, OTTAWA, ON K2E 7W6, CANADA	http://www.nrcresearchpress.com	1916-2790		BOTANY	Botany	2017	MAR	95	3			SI	283	294	12		EQ6HX	CCC:000398183500008					2019-04-10J	Scholtz, RSmit, IPJCoetsee, CKiker, GAVenter, FJ	Scholtz, R.; Smit, I. P. J.; Coetsee, C.; Kiker, G. A.; Venter, F. J.		Legacy effects of top-down disturbances on woody plant species composition in semi-arid systems	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	fire, herbivory, protected areas, savanna, vegetation structure	ELEPHANT-NATIONAL-PARK, TROPICAL RAIN-FORESTS, AFRICAN SAVANNA, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, SOUTH-AFRICA, INTERMEDIATE DISTURBANCE, BIRD COMMUNITIES, FIRE FREQUENCY, DIVERSITY, DYNAMICS	Savanna vegetation is controlled by bottom-up (e.g. soil and rainfall) and top-down (e.g. fire and herbivory) factors, all of which have an effect on biodiversity. Little is known about the relative contribution of these factors to biodiversity, particularly the long-term effects of top-down disturbance on patterns of woody plant composition. The aim of this study was to identify if various degrees of disturbance regimes create distinct woody species community assemblages. Data were collected over 1820 plots across Kruger National Park, South Africa. Woody species were identified and categorized into one of three height classes: shrub (0.75-2.5m), brush (2.5-5.5m), and tree (>5.5m). Species richness and composition were calculated for each site and height class. A combination of long-term fire and elephant density data were used to delineate areas with varying degrees of top-down disturbance (i.e. low, medium and high). Using these degrees of disturbance, species composition was identified and community assemblages constructed according to each disturbance regime. Our results suggest that areas with similar disturbance regimes have similar species composition. Shrub composition was mainly responsive to the number of fires between the years 1941-1990, while tree composition was more responsive to elephant disturbance. A few dominant species were found equally under all degrees of disturbance at all height classes, while others were more regularly found under specific disturbance regimes at particular height classes. This study highlights that while species richness does not appear to be influenced by long-term, top-down disturbance regimes, species community composition may be responsive to these disturbances. Most species and structural classes persisted across all disturbance regimes, but the long-term effects of top-down disturbances can influence compositional and structural biodiversity. This information provides context for management policies related to artificial water provision, elephants and fire.	[Scholtz, R; Smit, IPJ; Coetsee, C] South African Natl Pk, Sci Serv, Private Bag X402, ZA-1350 Skukuza, Mpumalanga, South Africa; [Scholtz, R] Univ Kwazulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Smit, IPJ] Univ Witwatersrand, Ctr African Ecol, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Coetsee, C] Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Univ, Sch Nat Resource Management, Saasveld, South Africa; [Coetsee, C] NMMU, George, South Africa; [Kiker, GA] Univ Florida, Dept Agr & Biol Engn, Gainesville, FL USA; [Kiker, GA] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Math Stat & Comp Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Venter, FJ] South African Natl Pk, Conservat Management, Skukuza, Mpumalanga, South Africa; [Scholtz, R] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA	Scholtz, R (reprint author), South African Natl Pk, Sci Serv, Private Bag X402, ZA-1350 Skukuza, Mpumalanga, South Africa.; Scholtz, R (reprint author), Univ Kwazulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, Durban, South Africa.; Scholtz, R (reprint author), Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA.	r.scholtz@okstate.edu	Kiker, Gregory/K-6149-2017	Kiker, Gregory/0000-0001-6215-0686	4	13	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1442-9985		AUSTRAL ECOL	Austral Ecol.	2017	FEB	42	1				72	83	12		EL9KF	CCC:000394938400008					2019-04-10J	Roshan, ZSAnushiravani, SKarimi, SMoradi, HVSalmanmahini, AR	Roshan, Zahra Sepehri; Anushiravani, Sina; Karimi, Soroor; Moradi, Hossein Varasteh; Salmanmahini, Abdol Rasoul		The importance of various stages of succession in preservation of biodiversity among riparian birds in northern Iran	ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Birds, Composition, Structure, Succession, Hyrcanian forest, Urban areas	RAIN-FOREST, SPECIES COMPOSITION, HABITAT STRUCTURE, HARDWOOD FOREST, TROPICAL FOREST, COMMUNITIES, DIVERSITY, POPULATION, OAK, CONSERVATION	Every stage of succession may provide certain species with habitat requirements which are impossible in other stages of succession. This study attempts to evaluate the different stages of succession in terms of composition and structure of bird populations in Hyrcanian forests. Bird-habitat relationships were investigated by comparing vegetation characteristics in three successional stages including late, initial stage, and urban areas. Bird richness, diversity, and abundance were measured within a 25-m radius of each of the 120 sampling points in various stages of succession and urban areas from May to April (2014) in the Ziarat catchment. This study indicated that every stage of succession may support certain species. Based on bird-habitat associations along the various stages of succession, two groupswere distinguished. Conventional comparative analysis separated two groups of understory birds: interior specialists and edge specialists. The interior-specialist group was positively correlated with the number of dead trees, tall trees with high values of dbh and height and canopy cover. In contrast, edge specialists groups mainly included terrestrial insectivores and were positively correlated with open area and shrub cover, and percentage of shrub cover between 1 and 2 m in height. In summary, bird communities in Hyrcanian forests are highly dynamic in different vegetation covers suggesting that it is critical to increase diverse and abundant bird populations by conserving forests composed of mosaics of differently disturbed stands and mature forest patches.	[Roshan, ZS; Moradi, HV; Salmanmahini, AR] Gorgan Univ Agr & Nat Resources, Dept Environm Sci, Gorgan, Iran; [Anushiravani, S] Islamic Azad Univ, Gorgan Branch, Young Researchers & Elite Club, Gorgan, Iran; [Karimi, S] Isfahan Univ Technol, Dept Nat Resources, Esfahan, Iran	Roshan, ZS (reprint author), Gorgan Univ Agr & Nat Resources, Dept Environm Sci, Gorgan, Iran.	Z.Sepehri90@gmail.com			1	15	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0167-6369		ENVIRON MONIT ASSESS	Environ. Monit. Assess.	2017	FEB	189	2				66	66	13		EK0VS	CCC:000393645800021	28110451				2019-04-10J	Cadieux, PDrapeau, P	Cadieux, Philippe; Drapeau, Pierre		Are old boreal forests a safe bet for the conservation of the avifauna associated with decayed wood in eastern Canada?	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Woodpeckers, Old boreal forest, Paludification, Mixedwoods, Hole-users, Deadwood, Black spruce, Trembling aspen	WOODPECKERS PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, BLACK SPRUCE STANDS, STRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT, NATURAL DISTURBANCES, NORTHWESTERN QUEBEC, BACKED WOODPECKER, BIRD COMMUNITIES, MANAGED BOREAL, FIRE SEVERITY, NORTH-AMERICA	Old boreal forests are considered quality habitats for birds associated with decaying and dead trees. However, the quantity and quality of these structural attributes in old forest stands are likely to be influenced by important latitudinal changes in tree species composition and productivity from the southern boreal mixed to the northern coniferous forests. We measured habitat occupancy of cavity and bark nesting birds in old forests when the boreal forest landscape shifts from a mixed to a dominant coniferous matrix in the Clay Belt of Quebec and Ontario, a region where paludification dominates. Using playback calls, songs, and recent woodpeckers' foraging signs on trees, we measured the occurrence and foraging habitat use of 11 bird species associated with deadwood in 86 unmanaged forest stands along a forest age gradient in both mixed and coniferous stands. In coniferous stands dominated by black spruce, deadwood birds showed a modal distribution in response to the aging of black spruce forests that reached a peak in stands of 160 years and then declined. Unproductive paludified stands, which made up more than 40% of our study area, were associated with a significantly lower species richness of deadwood birds. At the opposite, although they represented less than 4% of the forest cover in our study area, old boreal mixedwood forests (>90 years) were highly utilized habitats by deadwood birds. Structural diversity of trees (diversity of degradation stages and diameter of trees) was the variable that best explained species richness of this functional group of birds whereas at the individual species level, the quantity and quality of dead trees (degradation and size) in stands best explained species occurrence and abundance of foraging signs. Conservation efforts for deadwood birds should focus on old productive stands of both mixed and coniferous composition. However, our study pinpoints old mixed wood stand as habitats of special concern given their disproportionate importance for deadwood birds in northern boreal forests. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Cadieux, P; Drapeau, P] Univ Quebec Montreal, NSERC UQAT UQAM Ind Chair Sustainable Forest Mana, Ctr Forest Res, CP 8888,Succursale Ctr Ville, Montreal, PQ H3C 3P8, Canada	Cadieux, P (reprint author), Univ Quebec Montreal, Dept Sci Biol, CP 8888,Succursale Ctr Ville, Montreal, PQ H3C 3P8, Canada.	cadieuxp@gmail.com			1	27	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2017	FEB	385					127	139	13		EI7MA	CCC:000392680800014					2019-04-10J	Ram, DAxelsson, ALGreen, MSmith, HGLindstrom, A	Ram, Dafne; Axelsson, Anna-Lena; Green, Martin; Smith, Henrik G.; Lindstrom, Ake		What drives current population trends in forest birds - forest quantity, quality or climate? A large-scale analysis from northern Europe	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biodiversity, Forest quality, Forestry, Multi-species indicators, Population trends, Species richness	BOREAL FOREST, AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, HABITAT SELECTION, DEAD WOOD, MANAGEMENT, COMMUNITIES, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, LANDSCAPE, SWEDEN	Changes in forestry practices and on-going climate change may both have large impacts on forest bird populations. However, large-scale analyses of the effects of temporal changes in forest structure on forest bird numbers are largely lacking. We compared temporal trends from two Swedish nationwide long-term monitoring schemes, the Swedish Bird Survey (1998-2015) and the Swedish National Forestry Inventory (1983-2014), giving representative values for both forest and bird changes over an area of 35 million ha. Since 1998 the total area of middle-aged and mature forest increased by 6.4%. In parallel, several forest structures potentially beneficial to birds (dead wood, retention trees on clear cuts, multi-layer forests, old forest and broadleaved forest) increased somewhat in abundance, most likely as a result of legislation changes and increasing areas under forest certification schemes. Summer temperatures also increased, with warm summers dominating since 2002. In 1998-2015, the population sizes of 58 forest bird species on average increased, as did the number of species observed per route, with no general difference between forest specialists (16 species) and generalists (42 species). However, from around 2005, the positive trends in bird numbers and many forest structures have levelled out. An analysis of species population trends in relation to a measure of climate sensitivity (Species Temperature Index, STI) suggested that forest birds, just like Swedish birds in general, have indeed been affected by a warming climate. But given their STI, forest birds on average had more positive trends than non-forest birds, suggesting that other factors than climate have affected them positively. Strong candidate factors are the documented changes in forest quality and quantity. Whereas our data and analyses are correlational, and no firm conclusions on causality therefore can be drawn, it is reasonable to assume that the recent increases in forest quantity, forest quality, and summer temperatures, all have contributed to the general increase in forest bird numbers in Sweden. But the relative contribution of these driving forces remains to be determined. When it comes to the potentially positive effects of improving forest quality in terms of increases in old forest, stratification, retention trees and dead wood, it is noteworthy that many of the positive trends in forest structures since the mid-1990s seem to have ceased recently. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Ram, D; Green, M; Smith, HG; Lindstrom, A] Lund Univ, Biodivers Unit, Dept Biol, Ecol Bldg, S-22362 Lund, Sweden; [Axelsson, AL] Swedish Univ Agr Sci SLU, Dept Forest Resource Management, S-90183 Umea, Sweden; [Smith, HG] Lund Univ, Ctr Environm & Climate Res, S-22362 Lund, Sweden	Ram, D (reprint author), Lund Univ, Biodivers Unit, Dept Biol, Ecol Bldg, S-22362 Lund, Sweden.	dafne.ram@biol.lu.se			10	55	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2017	FEB	385					177	188	12		EI7MA	CCC:000392680800019					2019-04-10J	Lehikoinen, PLehikoinen, AMikkola-Roos, MJaatinen, K	Lehikoinen, Petteri; Lehikoinen, Aleksi; Mikkola-Roos, Markku; Jaatinen, Kim		Counteracting wetland overgrowth increases breeding and staging bird abundances	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS			English	Article	Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences (PCES)	MULTIDISCIPLINARY	Science & Technology - Other Topics		WHOLE SYSTEM EXPERIMENT, ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, SPECIES RICHNESS, BOTAURUS-STELLARIS, NUTRIENT RETENTION, HABITAT SELECTION, LONG-TERM, WATERBIRDS, LAKES, MANAGEMENT	Human actions have led to loss and degradation of wetlands, impairing their suitability as habitat especially for waterbirds. Such negative effects may be mitigated through habitat management. To date scientific evidence regarding the impacts of these actions remains scarce. We studied guild specific abundances of breeding and staging birds in response to habitat management on 15 Finnish wetlands. In this study management actions comprised several means of vegetation removal to thwart overgrowth. Management cost efficiency was assessed by examining the association between site-specific costs and bird abundances. Several bird guilds exhibited positive connections with both habitat management as well as with invested funds. Most importantly, however, red-listed species and species with special conservation concern as outlined by the EU showed positive correlations with management actions, underlining the conservation value of wetland management. The results suggest that grazing was especially efficient in restoring overgrown wetlands. As a whole this study makes it clear that wetland habitat management constitutes a feasible conservation tool. The marked association between invested funds and bird abundance may prove to be a valuable tool for decision makers when balancing costs and impact of conservation measures against one another.	[Lehikoinen, P; Lehikoinen, A] Univ Helsinki, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Helsinki Lab Ornithol, POB 17, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Lehikoinen, P] Lund Univ, Dept Biol, Solvegatan 37, S-22362 Lund, Sweden; [Mikkola-Roos, M] Finnish Environm Inst, POB 140, Helsinki 00251, Finland; [Jaatinen, K] Univ Helsinki, Tvarminne Zool Stn, JA Palmenin Tie 260, Hango 10900, Finland	Lehikoinen, P (reprint author), Univ Helsinki, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Helsinki Lab Ornithol, POB 17, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland.; Lehikoinen, P (reprint author), Lund Univ, Dept Biol, Solvegatan 37, S-22362 Lund, Sweden.	Petteri.Lehikoinen@helsinki.fi		Lehikoinen, Petteri/0000-0002-2272-024X; Lehikoinen, Aleksi/0000-0002-1989-277X	1	13	NATURE PUBLISHING GROUP	LONDON	MACMILLAN BUILDING, 4 CRINAN ST, LONDON N1 9XW, ENGLAND	http://www.nature.com	2045-2322		SCI REP-UK	Sci Rep	2017	JAN	7					41391	41391	11		EJ4BF	CCC:000393160200001	28128327	DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Stoeckli, SBirrer, SZellweger-Fischer, JBalmer, OJenny, MPfiffner, L	Stoeckli, Sibylle; Birrer, Simon; Zellweger-Fischer, Judith; Balmer, Oliver; Jenny, Markus; Pfiffner, Lukas		Quantifying the the extent to which farmers can influence biodiversity on their farms	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agri-environment schemes, Birds, Butterflies, Ecological compensation, Farm scale, In-field options, Grasshoppers, Plants, Variance partitioning	AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, ECOLOGICAL COMPENSATION AREAS, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, FARMLAND BIRDS, SCALE, COMMUNITIES, MANAGEMENT, GRASSLAND, CONSERVATION, POLLINATORS	Despite the introduction of agri-environmental schemes, no general increase of farmland biodiversity in Europe has been observed. Farmers take decisions about the implementation of agri-environmental schemes at the farm scale, and it is thus highly relevant to assess the relationship between farm management and biodiversity at this scale to increase the effectiveness of agri-environmental schemes. The present study quantifies to what extent and with which practices farmers can influence biodiversity on their farm and to what extent conditions outside farmers' control may mediate biodiversity.We grouped 27 variables into four variable sets: (1) ecological compensation (mainly semi-natural habitats), (2) in-field options (e.g. no growth regulator, insecticide and herbicide treatment), and (3) farm characteristics, which can be influenced by farmers (e.g. land-use types) as well as (4) farm settings, which cannot be influenced by farmers (e.g. altitude). As biodiversity metrics, plant, grasshopper, butterfly and bird richness and abundance of farmland target species were assessed on 133 farms of the Swiss Central Plateau from 2009 to 2011. Variance partitioning and generalised linear mixed models were used to analyse the impact of each variable set on farmland species diversity.Our results provide evidence that farmers can indeed positively influence biodiversity by ecological compensation and in-field options. The variables of the ecological compensation set explained the highest proportion in the variation of plant richness and butterfly abundance. We found a significant positive relationship between in-field options and plant abundance. Our study illustrated that the effects of biodiversity-related farming practices differ between species and biodiversity metrics. Conditions outside farmers' control explained a high variation in grasshopper and bird diversity. One variable within the set of farm settings, the degree of consolidation, had a significant negative impact on five out of eight biodiversity metrics (plant, butterfly and bird richness; plant and bird abundance). We demonstrate that farmers can substantially enhance biodiversity on their farms and provide knowledge on how such biodiversity improvements can be achieved by farmers. Further, we highlight the value of new biodiversity-related management practices such as in-field options. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Stoeckli, S; Balmer, O; Pfiffner, L] Res Inst Organ Agr FiBL, Ackerstr 21,PO 219, CH-5070 Frick, Switzerland; [Birrer, S; Zellweger-Fischer, J; Jenny, M] Swiss Ornithol Inst, Seerose 1, CH-6204 Sempach, Switzerland; [Balmer, O] Swiss Trop & Publ Hlth Inst, CH-4051 Basel, Switzerland	Stoeckli, S (reprint author), Res Inst Organ Agr FiBL, Ackerstr 21,PO 219, CH-5070 Frick, Switzerland.	sibylle.stoeckli@fibl.org; simon.birrer@vogelwarte.ch; judith.zellweger@vogelwarte.ch; oliver.balmer@unibas.ch; markus.jenny@vogelwarte.ch; lukas.pfiffner@fibl.org		Birrer, Simon/0000-0002-3665-8141; Balmer, Oliver/0000-0001-7572-7747	5	42	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2017	JAN	237					224	233	10		EJ5IT	CCC:000393252200022					2019-04-10J	Hannah, TITirpak, JMWathen, GLoman, ZGEvans, DLRush, SA	Hannah, Taylor I.; Tirpak, John M.; Wathen, Greg; Loman, Zachary G.; Evans, David L.; Rush, Scott A.		Influence of landscape- and stand-scale factors on avian communities to aid in open pine restoration	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bachman's Sparrow, Indicator species, Longleaf pine, Occupancy, Open pine, Red-cockaded Woodpecker	RED-COCKADED WOODPECKERS, LONGLEAF PINE, GRASSLAND RESTORATION, NORTHERN BOBWHITES, HABITAT, MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION, MODELS, POPULATION, ECOSYSTEM	Determining species occurrence in ecosystems of high conservation concern is especially important for recommending habitat management techniques and identifying suitable restoration sites. We investigated (1) how stand- and landscape-scale attributes affect occupancy of priority bird species associated with longleaf pine (Pines palutris) ecosystems, (2) if these priority birds can be used as indicator species for desired open pine forest structure, and (3) if these indicator species are positively correlated with greater avian richness. We compared priority bird occupancy among 12 stand types (habitat types) throughout the historic range of longleaf pine in Mississippi. We found stands resembling the historic longleaf pine ecosystem were positively associated with Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) and Bachman's Sparrow (Peucaea aestivalis) occupancy probabilities, but were not significantly correlated with Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) or Brown-headed Nuthatch (Sitta pusilla) occupancy. Both of which were too generalized in their occurrence to be useful indicators. Red-cockaded Woodpecker and Bachman's Sparrow occupancy probabilities positively correlated with desired forest structure metrics of longleaf pine ecosystems such as low midstory density (<10%) and basal area (9.2-16.1 m(2)/ha) and 40-60% canopy cover suggesting they are effective indicators of historic longleaf pine conditions. Co-occurrence of Red-cockaded Woodpecker and Bachman's Sparrow was positively correlated with avian richness, indicating these species can be used in conjunction as effective indicators for desired open pine endpoints used for restoration and management. Inclusion of priority bird species in management efforts provides assurance that restored areas will incorporate desired forest structure endpoints that have been linked to open pine priority bird presence. Correlation between priority bird species and avian species richness ensures restored areas provide suitable habitat for local avian communities. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Hannah, TI; Loman, ZG; Rush, SA] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Aquaculture, POB 9690, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Tirpak, JM] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Gulf Restorat Program, 700 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA; [Wathen, G] Gulf Coastal Plains & Ozarks LCC, Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agcy, POB 40747, Nashville, TN 37204 USA; [Evans, DL] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Forestry, POB 9681, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA	Hannah, TI (reprint author), Utah State Univ, Dept Wildl & Resources, Logan, UT 84322 USA.	tayihann4@gmail.com; john_tirpak@fws.gov; greg.wathen@tn.gov; zac206@yahoo.com; dle2@msstate.edu; scott.rush@msstate.edu			3	36	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2017	JAN	384					389	399	11		EG0MT	CCC:000390727600040					2019-04-10J	Muyemeki, LBurger, RPiketh, SJEvans, SW	Muyemeki, Luckson; Burger, Roelof; Piketh, Stuart J.; Evans, Steven W.		Bird species richness and densities in relation to sulphur dioxide gradients and environmental variables	OSTRICH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	air pollution, power station, species richness, species-specific density, sulphur dioxide	SATELLITE IMAGE TEXTURE, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, DISPERSION MODEL, UNITED-STATES, OIL-SPILL, POLLUTION, DIVERSITY, FORESTS, IMPACT, NDVI	The expansion of coal-fired power stations in South Africa has resulted in growing environmental concerns as they are the largest emitters of sulphur dioxide (SO2). Sulphur dioxide emissions from power plants pose a potential threat to avian populations. However, the effect of SO2 pollution on bird communities is poorly understood. Using point counts we investigated the relationships of bird species richness and species-specific density with SO2 concentrations around Matimba power station. Environmental parameters were derived from remotely sensed data and data reduction was performed using principal component analysis. Generalised linear mixed models were then used to infer the relationships of bird species richness and species-specific densities with SO2 concentrations and the environmental variables. Our results revealed that SO2-polluted air had no influence on bird species richness and densities in our study sites, but SO2 levels were below annual national ambient air quality standards. Vegetation productivity was found to have a greater influence on species densities than SO2 pollution. Monitoring of bird population changes around Matimba power station once neighbouring Medupi power station is fully operational is recommended, as SO2 content of the air will increase significantly, and species may be sensitive to this increase in SO2 levels.	[Muyemeki, L; Burger, R; Piketh, SJ] North West Univ, Unit Environm Sci & Management Geog & Environm Ma, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Evans, SW] Univ Venda, Sch Math & Nat Sci, SARCHI Chair Biodivers Value & Change, Thohoyandou, South Africa	Muyemeki, L (reprint author), North West Univ, Unit Environm Sci & Management Geog & Environm Ma, Potchefstroom, South Africa.	lucksonmuyemeki@gmail.com		Muyemeki, Luckson/0000-0001-7465-5446	1	5	NATL INQUIRY SERVICES CENTRE PTY LTD	GRAHAMSTOWN	19 WORCESTER STREET, PO BOX 377, GRAHAMSTOWN 6140, SOUTH AFRICA	http://www.nisc.co.za	0030-6525		OSTRICH	Ostrich	2017		88	3				253	259	7		FO2CS	CCC:000416580600008					2019-04-10J	Kornan, MAdamik, P	Kornan, Martin; Adamik, Peter		Tree species preferences of foraging insectivorous birds in a primeval mountain mixed forest: implications for management	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird foraging, habitat selection, foraging niche, forest birds, trophic interactions, old-growth forest, Sramkova National Nature Reserve	HABITAT SELECTION, FOLIAGE STRUCTURE, TITS PARUS, PATTERNS, DETERMINANTS, ASSEMBLAGES, ATTRACTION, DIVERSITY, RESPONSES, BEHAVIOR	Bird-plant species associations can be an important component of habitat selection in forest birds. We assessed tree species preferences of foraging insectivorous birds in a primeval beech-fir forest in north-west Slovakia, hypothesizing that bird population densities are negatively associated with foraging specialization. We sampled foraging behaviour by random point observations from mid-May until the end of July during 1997-2003. Significant preference or avoidance patterns were found in 16 of 17 bird species. Based on the tree preference index, we distinguished four main foraging specializations: generalists, deciduous specialists, coniferous specialists, and dead wood specialists. Many bird species showed strong preferences for such rare and uncommon tree species as wych elm (Ulmus glabra), sycamore (Acer pseudoplatanus), and Norway spruce (Picea abies). European beech (Fagus sylvatica), hazel (Corylus avellana), and rowan (Sorbus aucuparia) were generally avoided. Birds with low densities tended to be most selective, but that effect was not statistically significant. Population variability was not significantly associated with foraging specialization. We hypothesize that impoverishment of tree species diversity within forest stands could lead to less diverse bird assemblages composed of species specialized on those tree species remaining and of generalist foragers able to adapt to a wide range of foraging substrates.	[Kornan, M] Ctr Ecol Studies, Ustredie 14, Velke Rovne 01362, Slovakia; [Kornan, M] Tech Univ Zvolen, Dept Appl Zool & Wildlife Management, Fac Forestry, Zvolen, Slovakia; [Adamik, P] Palacky Univ, Dept Zool, Olomouc, Czech Republic	Kornan, M (reprint author), Ctr Ecol Studies, Ustredie 14, Velke Rovne 01362, Slovakia.	martin.kornan@gmail.com	Adamik, Peter/I-2057-2013; Kornan, Martin/F-6071-2012	Adamik, Peter/0000-0003-1566-1234; Kornan, Martin/0000-0002-0280-6636	0	9	TAYLOR & FRANCIS AS	OSLO	KARL JOHANS GATE 5, NO-0154 OSLO, NORWAY	http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals	0282-7581		SCAND J FOREST RES	Scand. J. Forest Res.	2017		32	8				671	678	8		FK6GE	CCC:000413600600005					2019-04-10J	DellaSala, DAHutto, RLHanson, CTBond, MLIngalsbee, TOdion, DBaker, WL	DellaSala, Dominick A.; Hutto, Richard L.; Hanson, Chad T.; Bond, Monica L.; Ingalsbee, Timothy; Odion, Dennis; Baker, William L.		ACCOMMODATING MIXED-SEVERITY FIRE TO RESTORE AND MAINTAIN ECOSYSTEM INTEGRITY WITH A FOCUS ON THE SIERRA NEVADA OF CALIFORNIA, USA	FIRE ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	coarse filter, ecosystem integrity, fine filter, focal species, mixed-severity fire, pyrodiversity, Sierra Nevada, species of conservation concern	BLACK-BACKED WOODPECKERS, WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, OWL SITE OCCUPANCY, HOME-RANGE SIZE, SPOTTED OWL, HABITAT SELECTION, BURNED FORESTS, NORTHERN CALIFORNIA, EVERGREEN FOREST	Existing fire policy encourages the maintenance of ecosystem integrity in fire management, yet this is difficult to implement on lands managed for competing economic, human safety, and air quality concerns. We discuss a fire management approach in the mid-elevations of the Sierra Nevada, California, USA, that may exemplify similar challenges in other fire-adapted regions of the western USA. We also discuss how managing for pyrodiversity through mixed-severity fires can promote ecosystem integrity in Sierran mixed conifer and ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Laws) forests. To illustrate, we show how coarse-filter (landscape-level) and complementary fine-filter (species-level) approaches can enhance forest management and conservation biology objectives as related to wildfire management. At the coarse-filter level, pyrodiverse mixed-severity fires provide landscape heterogeneity. Species and ecosystem characteristics associated with pyrodiversity can be maintained or enhanced by accommodating moderately severe fires, which hasten restoration by recreating a complex vegetation mosaic otherwise at risk from suppression. At the fine-filter level, managers can select focal species and species of conservation concern based on the degree to which those species depend on fire and accommodate their specific conservation needs. The black-backed woodpecker (Picoides arcticus [Swainson, 1832]) is an ideal focal species for monitoring the ecological integrity of forests restored through mixed-severity fire, and the California spotted owl (Strix occidentalis occidentalis [Xantus de Vesey, 1860]) is a species of conservation concern that uses post-fire habitat mosaics and is particularly vulnerable to logging. We suggest a comprehensive approach that integrates wildland fire for ecosystem integrity and species viability with strategic deployment of fire suppression and ecologically based restoration of pyrodiverse landscapes. Our approach would accomplish fire management goals while simultaneously maintaining biodiversity.	[DellaSala, DA] Geos Inst, 84 4th St, Ashland, OR 97520 USA; [Hutto, RL] Univ Montana, Div Biol Sci, 32 Campus Dr 4824, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Hanson, CT; Bond, ML] Earth Isl Inst, 2150 Allston Way,Suite 460, Berkeley, CA 94704 USA; Wild Nat Inst, 15 North Main St,Suite 208, Concord, NH 03755 USA; [Ingalsbee, T] Firefighters United Safety Eth & Ecol, 2852 Willamette 125, Eugene, OR 97405 USA; [Odion, D] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Earth Res Inst, 6832 Ellison Hall, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA; [Odion, D] Southern Oregon Univ, Dept Environm Studies, 1250 Siskiyou Blvd, Ashland, OR 97520 USA; [Baker, WL] Univ Wyoming, Dept Geog, Program Ecol, 1000 E Univ Ave, Laramie, WY 82071 USA	DellaSala, DA (reprint author), Geos Inst, 84 4th St, Ashland, OR 97520 USA.	dominick@geosinstitute.org			5	24	ASSOC FIRE ECOLOGY	EUGENE	PO BOX 50412, EUGENE, OR 97405 USA	http://www.fireecology.net	1933-9747		FIRE ECOL	Fire Ecol.	2017		13	2				148	171	24		FF2ML	CCC:000408731400009					2019-04-10J	Walther, BAChen, JRJLin, HSSun, YH	Walther, Bruno A.; Chen, Jane Ren-Jen; Lin, Hui-Shan; Sun, Yuan-Hsun		The Effects of Rainfall, Temperature, and Wind on a Community of Montane Birds in Shei-Pa National Park, Taiwan	ZOOLOGICAL STUDIES			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	weather, bird density, species richness, monitoring, Taiwan	ZONOTRICHIA-LEUCOPHRYS-ORIANTHA, IN-HOUSE FINCHES, SPECIES RICHNESS, SIERRA-NEVADA, SEASONAL ACCLIMATIZATION, ALTITUDINAL MIGRATION, NORTHERN BIRDS, WEATHER, FOREST, POPULATION	Montane birds are regularly exposed to extreme weather variations. Taiwan's subtropical montane avifauna has many endemic species which are regularly exposed to large weather fluctuations. From 2010 to 2013, we conducted monthly censuses to study the influence of monthly weather variations on species richness and bird density of a montane bird community (> 3000 m a.s.l.) in Shei-Pa National Park. Censuses were conducted along a trail which traverses four distinct habitats with increasing altitude: bush forest ecotone, post-fire grassland, conifer forest, and rocky bushland. The highly variable weather corresponded with large fluctuations in the bird community. We found that lower temperatures had a negative effect on species richness and bird density, and this effect was strongest in the highest elevation habitat, the rocky bushland. Rainfall was positively correlated with bird density, but only explained 15% of the variation, while the effects of wind speed were inconsistent and small. This is the first study to demonstrate such weather effects in Taiwan and probably East Asia. We briefly discuss adaptations to harsh weather conditions in birds, which might be a profitable future research field for montane birds in Taiwan.	[Walther, BA] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Nutr, Master Program Global Hlth & Dev, 250 Wu Hsing St, Taipei 110, Taiwan; [Chen, JRJ; Lin, HS; Sun, YH] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Vet Med, Institute Wildlife Conservat, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan	Walther, BA (reprint author), Taipei Med Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Nutr, Master Program Global Hlth & Dev, 250 Wu Hsing St, Taipei 110, Taiwan.	bawalther2009@gmail.com			2	6	BIODIVERSITY RESEARCH CENTER, ACAD SINICA	TAIPEI	128 ACADEMIA RODA, SECTION 2, NANKANG, TAIPEI, 11529, TAIWAN		1021-5506		ZOOL STUD	Zool. Stud.	2017		56					23	23	32		FC4EG	CCC:000406790900016					2019-04-10J	Marthy, WClough, YTscharntke, T	Marthy, William; Clough, Yann; Tscharntke, Teja		Assessing the potential for avifauna recovery in degraded forests in Indonesia	RAFFLES BULLETIN OF ZOOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	deforestation, distance sampling, forest restoration, avian diversity, logging	DISTANCE SAMPLING SURVEYS, BIRD SPECIES RICHNESS, RAIN-FOREST, LAND-USE, ENVIRONMENTAL-FACTORS, CONSERVATION VALUE, SOUTHEAST-ASIA, BIODIVERSITY, COMMUNITY, ABUNDANCE	Continuing disappearance and degradation of primary tropical rainforests in Indonesia, and the ongoing conversion of degraded forest to monoculture plantations, threaten many bird species with local extinction. Yet, information on bird populations from the Sundaic region, which covers western Indonesia, is generally lacking, limiting our understanding of species responses to disturbance, extinction risks, and potential ways to counteract local species extinction processes. On the Indonesian island of Sumatra, bird density information is only known from two studies ( on four hornbill species and one pheasant species). Here, we compare bird densities between less degraded and highly degraded forests within the Harapan Rainforest Ecosystem Restoration Concession in Sumatra. From a total of 148 bird species recorded, densities were calculated for 47 species with the highest encounter rate, 33 of which were recorded in forests of both disturbance levels, allowing comparisons to be made. We found five species with higher densities in the highly degraded forest and seven species with higher densities in the less degraded forest. While our species-specific results were generally consistent with previous biological insights, there were exceptions, such as a species previously considered to be sensitive to habitat degradation, the sooty-capped babbler Malacopteron affine, being more abundant in the highly degraded forest. Our study revealed that despite its condition, degraded forest retains much value for Sumatran lowland forest birds, providing a compelling argument for securing its important conservation status under improved management, rather than assigning it for clearance as typically happens.	[Marthy, W; Tscharntke, T] Georg August Univ, Agroecol Grp, Grisebachstr 6, D-37077 Gottingen, Germany; [Clough, Y] Lund Univ, Ctr Environm & Climate Res CEC, Lund, Sweden; [Marthy, W] Wildlife Conservat Soc, Indonesia Program, Jalan Tampomas Ujung 35 Rt 3 Rw 3, Bogor 16151, Indonesia	Marthy, W (reprint author), Georg August Univ, Agroecol Grp, Grisebachstr 6, D-37077 Gottingen, Germany.; Marthy, W (reprint author), Wildlife Conservat Soc, Indonesia Program, Jalan Tampomas Ujung 35 Rt 3 Rw 3, Bogor 16151, Indonesia.	wmarthy@wcs.org	Tscharntke, Teja/N-5123-2014		2	9	NATL UNIV SINGAPORE, SCHOOL BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	SINGAPORE	DEPT ZOOLOGY, KENT RIDGE, SINGAPORE 0511, SINGAPORE	http://www.science.nus.sg/	0217-2445		RAFFLES B ZOOL	Raffles Bull. Zool.	2017		65					35	48	14		FA6YH	CCC:000405590400005					2019-04-10J	Tanner, EPElmore, RDDavis, CAFuhlendorf, SD	Tanner, Evan P.; Elmore, R. Dwayne; Davis, Craig A.; Fuhlendorf, Samuel D.		Wintering bird responses to the presence of artificial surface water in a semi-arid rangeland	WILDLIFE BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM, GRASSLAND BIRDS, OKLAHOMA MESONET, TERRITORY SIZE, GREAT-PLAINS, WILDLIFE, SPARROWS, PREDATION, ABUNDANCE, PATTERNS	Provision of artificial surface water has been suggested as a management practice that can benefit wildlife in arid and semi-arid regions. With unprecedented droughts predicted for many of these areas in North America in coming decades, understanding species response to the provision of artificial surface water should be evaluated. Moreover, a dearth of knowledge exists in the understanding of avian response to artificial surface water during the non-breeding season. To address this lack of knowledge, we sampled the avian community at varying distances from water sources in Beaver County, Oklahoma, USA from February-March 2013-2014. A total of 20 species were detected. We found no relationship to avian species richness and distance to water. Likewise, pooled data of detections across all species indicated no relationship in relation to artificial surface water. Analysis on individual species indicated that western meadowlarks Sturnella neglecta did not respond to water. However, American tree sparrows Spizella arborea (plateau model beta = 0.05, SE = 0.01) were attracted to surface water sources up to a distance of 100 m (SE = 40.19 m). Furthermore, white-crowned sparrows Zonotrichia leucophrys (linear beta = -0.01, SE = 0.006) were attracted to surface water sources up to distance of 250 m. Additionally, analysis indicated that used water sources by American tree sparrows had significantly more mixed shrub cover (%) when compared to unused water sources (beta = 6.04, SE = 2.64; p = 0.03) and that use of water sources by white-crowned sparrows was influenced by the amount of mixed shrub cover within 50 m of the water source (beta = 0.36, SE = 0.16; p = 0.02). Our results suggest that some overwintering sparrows will alter space use in response to the presence of artificial surface water, however, it is unknown whether provision of water influences overwinter survival of sparrows.	[Tanner, EP; Elmore, RD; Davis, CA; Fuhlendorf, SD] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, 008C Ag Hall, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA	Tanner, EP (reprint author), Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, 008C Ag Hall, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA.	evan.tanner@okstate.edu			2	6	WILDLIFE BIOLOGY	RONDE	C/O JAN BERTELSEN, GRENAAVEJ 14, KALO, DK-8410 RONDE, DENMARK		0909-6396		WILDLIFE BIOL	Wildlife Biol.	2017							315	315	10		EV9CD	CCC:000402081200001		DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Donnelly, JPTack, JDDoherty, KENaugle, DEAllred, BWDreitz, VJ	Donnelly, J. Patrick; Tack, Jason D.; Doherty, Kevin E.; Naugle, David E.; Allred, Brady W.; Dreitz, Victoria J.		Extending Conifer Removal and Landscape Protection Strategies from Sage-grouse to Songbirds, a Range-Wide Assessment	RANGELAND ECOLOGY & MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Brewer's sparrow, conifer removal, sagebrush landscape protection, sagebrush sparrow, sage-grouse, sage thrasher	ENERGY DEVELOPMENT, SAGEBRUSH LANDSCAPES, SHRUBSTEPPE BIRDS, PASSERINE BIRDS, GAS EXTRACTION, NORTH-AMERICA, HABITAT, CONSERVATION, POPULATIONS, COMMUNITIES	Recent and unprecedented scale of greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) conservation in the American West enables assessment of community-level benefits afforded to other sagebrush-obligate species. We use North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) count data and machine-learning to assess predictors influencing spatial distribution and abundance of three sagebrush-obligate songbirds (Brewer's sparrow [Spizella breweri], sagebrush sparrow [Artemisiospiza nevadensis], and sage thrasher [Oreoscoptes montanus]). We quantified co-occurrence of songbird abundance with sage-grouse lek distributions using point pattern analyses and evaluated the concurrence of songbird abundance within sage-grouse habitat restoration and landscape protection. Sagebrush land-cover predictors were positively associated with the abundance of each songbird species in models that explained 16-37% of variation in BBS route level counts. Individual songbird models identified an apparent 40% threshold in sagebrush land-cover, over which songbird abundances nearly doubled. Songbird abundances were positively associated with sage-grouse distributions (P < 0.01); range-wide, landscapes supporting > 50% of males on leks also harbored 13-19% higher densities of songbirds compared with range-wide mean densities. Eighty-five percent of the conifer removal conducted through the Sage Grouse Initiative coincided with high to moderate Brewer's sparrow abundance. Wyoming's landscape protection (i.e., "core area") strategy for sagegrouse encompasses half the high to moderate abundance sagebrush sparrow and sage thrasher populations. In the Great Basin half the high to moderate abundance sagebrush sparrow and sage thrasher populations coincide with sage-grouse Fire and Invasive Assessment Tool priorities, where conservation actions are being focused in an attempt to reduce the threat of wildfire and invasive plants. Our work illustrates spatially targeted actions being implemented ostensibly for sage-grouse largely overlap high abundance centers for three sagebrush obligate passerines and are likely providing significant conservation benefits for lesswell-known sagebrush songbirds and other sagebrush-associated wildlife. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of The Society for Range Management.	[Donnelly, JP] Univ Montana, Intermt West Joint Venture, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Donnelly, JP] Univ Montana, US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Tack, JD] Univ Montana, Avian Sci Ctr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Doherty, KE] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Lakewood, CO 80228 USA; [Naugle, DE] Univ Montana, Large Scale Wildlife Ecol, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Naugle, DE] Univ Montana, Sage Grouse Initiat, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Allred, BW] Univ Montana, Rangeland Ecol, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Dreitz, VJ] Univ Montana, Avian Sci Ctr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Dreitz, VJ] Univ Montana, Conservat Biol, Missoula, MT 59812 USA	Donnelly, JP (reprint author), Univ Montana, 32 Campus Dr,FOR302, Missoula, MT 59812 USA.	patrick_donnelly@fws.gov		Donnelly, Patrick/0000-0002-9910-0794	4	28	SOC RANGE MANAGEMENT	LAKEWOOD	445 UNION BLVD, STE 230, LAKEWOOD, CO 80228-1259 USA	http://www.srmjournals.org	1550-7424		RANGELAND ECOL MANAG	Rangel. Ecol. Manag.	2017	JAN	70				SI	95	105	11		EH5NN	CCC:000391820000011		Other Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Mcclure, CJWPauli, BPMutch, BJuergens, P	Mcclure, Christopher J. W.; Pauli, Benjamin P.; Mutch, Brian; Juergens, Paul		Assessing the importance of artificial nest-sites in the population dynamics of endangered Northern Aplomado Falcons Falco femoralis septentrionalis in South Texas using stochastic simulation models	IBIS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	endangered species, habitat, habitat restoration, population model, reproduction	ENVIRONMENTAL STOCHASTICITY, REINTRODUCTION BIOLOGY, BREEDING POPULATIONS, DEMOGRAPHIC-MODELS, MANAGEMENT, SURVIVAL, EXPLAIN, GROWTH, TRANSLOCATION, RELOCATIONS	Habitat availability might be the most important determinant of success for a species reintroduction programme, making investigation of the quality and quantity of habitat needed to produce self-sustaining populations a research priority for reintroduction ecologists. We used a stochastic model of population dynamics to predict whether attempts to improve existing breeding territories using artificial nest platforms improved the population growth rate and persistence of a reintroduced population of Northern Aplomado Falcons Falco femoralis septentrionalis in South Texas. We further assessed whether the creation of new territories, i.e. conversion of entire areas to suitable habitat and not simply the erection of nest platforms, would lead to a subsequent increase in the nesting population. Our model was able to reproduce several characteristics of the wild population and predicted the number of breeding pairs per year strikingly well (R-2 = 0.97). Simulations revealed that the addition of nest platforms improved productivity such that the population would decline to extinction without them but is stable since their installation. Moreover, the model predicted that the increase in productivity due to nest platforms would cause the population to saturate available breeding territories, at which point the population would contain a moderate proportion of non-territorial birds that could occupy territories if new ones become available. Population size would therefore be proportional to the increase in available territories. Our study demonstrates that artificial nest-sites can be an effective tool for the management of reintroduced species.	[Mcclure, CJW; Mutch, B; Juergens, P] Peregrine Fund, 5668 West Flying Hawk Lane, Boise, ID 83709 USA; [Pauli, BP] Boise State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Pauli, BP] Boise State Univ, Raptor Res Ctr, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Pauli, BP] St Marys Univ Minnesota, 700 Terrace Hts,Box 10, Winona, MN 55987 USA	Mcclure, CJW (reprint author), Peregrine Fund, 5668 West Flying Hawk Lane, Boise, ID 83709 USA.	cmcclure@peregrinefund.org		McClure, Christopher/0000-0003-1216-7425	1	17	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0019-1019		IBIS	Ibis	2017	JAN	159	1				14	25	12		EF3KT	CCC:000390224000002		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DBMacGregor, CWood, JWestgate, MJIkin, KFoster, CFord, FZentelis, R	Lindenmayer, David B.; MacGregor, Christopher; Wood, Jeff; Westgate, Martin J.; Ikin, Karen; Foster, Claire; Ford, Fred; Zentelis, Rick		Bombs, fire and biodiversity: Vertebrate fauna occurrence in areas subject to military training	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Mammals, Birds, Reptiles, Fire, Military training effects on biodiversity, South-Eastern Australia	FUNCTIONAL DIVERSITY, CONSERVATION, RESPONSES, WILDFIRE, TIME, DYNAMICS, HABITAT, DISTURBANCE, LANDSCAPES, MANAGEMENT	Military training areas (MTAs) cover 6% of the earth's land surface, but the impact on biodiversity of weapons use in MTAs remains largely unknown. We quantified the effects of military training on vertebrates in a 5-year study at Beecroft Weapons Range in south-eastern Australia by contrasting the occurrence of birds, mammals and reptiles between 24 sites within an area subject to repeated weapons use and a matched set of non-impacted sites. Species richness of mammals and reptiles was similar within versus outside the impact area, although many-individual species responded to fire, which occurred more frequently in impacted sites. Bird species richness, the occurrence of larger-bodied and migratory bird species, and the occurrence of most individual bird species, was reduced within the impact area. Many bird species that displayed low prevalence in impacted sites also declined over time across the whole study area. Differences in biota between the impact and non-impact areas were detectable after controlling for the effects of recent fire, suggesting that weapons use impacted vertebrates through mechanisms additional to altered fire regimes.Overall, our data indicated that Beecroft Weapons Range maintained considerable biodiversity value despite prolonged military use. Hence, MTAs have the potential to make a substantial contribution to conservation outside the formal protected area network. However, managers of MTAs need to explicitly state their environmental objectives. This is because management practices may be different if the aim is to maximize species richness rather than to secure populations of particular species. Crown Copyright (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Lindenmayer, DB; MacGregor, C; Wood, J; Westgate, MJ; Ikin, K; Foster, C; Ford, F; Zentelis, R] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, 141 Linnaeus Way, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; MacGregor, C] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Long Term Ecol Res Network, 141 Linnaeus Way, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Ford, F] Def Estate & Infrastructure Grp, POB 7925, Canberra, ACT 2610, Australia	Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, 141 Linnaeus Way, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Long Term Ecol Res Network, 141 Linnaeus Way, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.	david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au	Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017; Westgate, Martin/; Foster, Claire/	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088; Westgate, Martin/0000-0003-0854-2034; Foster, Claire/0000-0001-5061-6055	3	28	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2016	DEC	204		B			276	283	8		EG3TZ	CCC:000390968900017					2019-04-10J	Benkman, CW	Benkman, Craig W.		The Natural History of the South Hills Crossbill in Relation to Its Impending Extinction	AMERICAN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	climate change, Loxia, phenological mismatch, population decline, range-restricted, serotiny	LODGEPOLE PINE FORESTS, COEVOLUTIONARY ARMS-RACE, CLIMATE-CHANGE IMPACTS, WESTERN UNITED-STATES, CANOPY SEED STORAGE, BIRD COMMUNITIES, POPULATION-SIZE, RED CROSSBILL, BARK BEETLES, FIRE REGIMES	Increasingly, the species that we discover will be uncommon, area restricted, and vulnerable to extinction. I describe the natural history of a newly discovered seed-eating finch from the Rocky Mountain region, the South Hills crossbill (Loxia curvirostra complex). It relies on seeds in the closed cones of the fire-adapted Rocky Mountain lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta latifolia) and is found only in the higher elevations of two small mountain ranges in southern Idaho. Here crossbills and pine are engaged in a coevolutionary arms race. Although most of the seeds remain secured within the cones for decades until the heat of a stand-replacing fire causes the cone scales to separate, seeds become accessible to crossbills slowly as cones weather and gaps form between some of the scales. However, hot days (32 degrees C), especially four or more hot days, seem to mimic the effect of fire, apparently causing the immediate release of a fraction of the seeds. Such events caused a 20% annual decline in crossbills that lasted up to 4 years and an 80% decline in the population between 2003 and 2011. This is an example of a novel trophic mismatch between a consumer and its resource caused by a shift in the phenology of the resource arising from climate change. Not only do these phenological shifts have the potential to cause seed consumers to decline, these shifts are also likely to cause reduced recruitment of the plants. The South Hills crossbill is especially vulnerable and will likely go extinct this century before lodgepole pine is extirpated from the South Hills.	[Benkman, CW] Univ Wyoming, Dept Zool & Physiol, Laramie, WY 82071 USA	Benkman, CW (reprint author), Univ Wyoming, Dept Zool & Physiol, Laramie, WY 82071 USA.	cbenkman@uwyo.edu			0	27	UNIV CHICAGO PRESS	CHICAGO	1427 E 60TH ST, CHICAGO, IL 60637-2954 USA	http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/	0003-0147		AM NAT	Am. Nat.	2016	DEC	188	6				589	601	13		ED2NM	CCC:000388683800002	27860509				2019-04-10J	Davis, RADoherty, TSvan Etten, EJBRadford, JQHolmes, FKnuckey, CDavis, BJ	Davis, Robert A.; Doherty, Tim S.; van Etten, Eddie J. B.; Radford, James Q.; Holmes, Floyd; Knuckey, Chris; Davis, Belinda J.		Conserving long unburnt vegetation is important for bird species, guilds and diversity	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Chronosequence, Disturbance ecology, Fire, Mediterranean, Prescribed burning	WESTERN-AUSTRALIA, FIRE SEVERITY, MEDITERRANEAN SHRUBLAND, CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT, CLIMATE-CHANGE, LAND-USE, TIME, RESPONSES, ASSEMBLAGES, LANDSCAPES	Landscape-level wildfires have a major role in structuring faunal assemblages, particularly in fire-prone landscapes. These effects are mediated by changes to vegetation structure and composition that directly influence the availability of shelter, feeding and breeding resources. We investigated the response of a semi-arid shrubland bird community in Western Australia to the prevailing fire regime by examining the abundance, diversity and guild structure in relation to time since fire. We also examined vegetation structural attributes in relation to time since fire. We surveyed 32 sites ranging in age from 12 to 84 years since last fire. A total of 845 birds from 40 species were recorded. Vegetation structure varied with fire history with old and very old sites characterised by less bare ground, more leaf litter cover and greater canopy cover. Bird community composition varied with time since fire, driven by increased bird species richness and abundance of insectivores, granivores/frugivores, golden whistlers, grey shrike-thrush and red-capped robins with time since fire. Frequent, intense landscape-scale fires transform the landscape into homogeneous young shrublands, which may render vegetation unsuitable for several species and guilds.	[Davis, RA; Doherty, TS; van Etten, EJB; Holmes, F; Knuckey, C] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Sci, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Davis, RA] Univ Western Australia, Sch Anim Biol, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Radford, JQ] Bush Heritage Australia, Melbourne, Vic 8009, Australia; [Knuckey, C] MWH Australia, Jolimont, WA 6014, Australia; [Davis, BJ] Univ Western Australia, Sch Plant Biol, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Davis, BJ] Bot Gardens & Pk Author, Kings Pk & Bot Garden, Perth, WA 6005, Australia; [Doherty, TS] Deakin Univ, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Ctr Integrat Ecol, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia	Davis, RA (reprint author), Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Sci, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia.; Davis, RA (reprint author), Univ Western Australia, Sch Anim Biol, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia.	robert.davis@ecu.edu.au	Doherty, Tim/G-9354-2015; van Etten, Eddie/; Davis, Robert/F-6621-2012	Doherty, Tim/0000-0001-7745-0251; van Etten, Eddie/0000-0002-7311-1794; Davis, Robert/0000-0002-9062-5754	2	37	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2016	DEC	25	13				2709	2722	14		EB6FC	CCC:000387475900008					2019-04-10J	Parisi, FLombardi, FSciarretta, ATognetti, RCampanaro, AMarchetti, MTrematerra, P	Parisi, Francesco; Lombardi, Fabio; Sciarretta, Andrea; Tognetti, Roberto; Campanaro, Alessandro; Marchetti, Marco; Trematerra, Pasquale		Spatial patterns of saproxylic beetles in a relic silver fir forest (Central Italy), relationships with forest structure and biodiversity indicators	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Unmanaged forests, Saproxylic beetles fauna, Deadwood, Microhabitats, Geostatistical analyses, Spatial patterns, Central Apennines, Italy	GROWTH BOREAL FORESTS, DEAD-WOOD, TREE MICROHABITATS, SOUTHERN FINLAND, STAND DYNAMICS, BEECH FOREST, MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY, ASSEMBLAGES	The conservation of biological diversity is one of the main goals for managing forests in an ecologically sustainable way. Presence and abundance of microhabitats, such as tree cavities or bark pockets, can be conveniently used as indicators to evaluate the effectiveness of sustainable forest management measures. In Mediterranean forest ecosystems, the relationships between stand-structure attributes and species-diversity indicators are still poorly studied.We described the structural attributes, deadwood characteristics and microhabitat occurrence in a silver fir forest of Central Apennines (Italy), which has not been submitted to silvicultural interventions for several decades. We assessed linkages between these characteristics and the abundance, distribution and diversity of saproxylic beetle fauna. A systematic aligned sampling method was conduced on 240 ha, examining 50 plots of 530 m(2) each. Saproxylic beetles were sampled using window flight traps and emergence traps in relation to abundance and species richness at the plot level, but also on decaying deadwood. The heterogeneity in types and frequencies of microhabitats, and the link between structural attributes associated with stand complexity and saproxylic species, were also analysed. With the aim of describing the complex saproxylic ecological network, beetle species were classified according to the type of interactions with wood and other insects fauna, but also in relation to the trophic guilds. Linear regressions were conducted for highlighting metric variability and relationships between parameters, while geostatistical analyses were used to describe the spatial variability of structural features and the spatial pattern of beetle distributions.Results of linear regression and geostatistical analysis showed how the saproxylic beetle community is influenced by the amount, type and stage of decay of deadwood, but also by the forest structural complexity and the occurrence of microhabitats. Gap dynamics and natural disturbances had effects on deadwood amounts and microhabitat abundance, which was significantly higher than in managed and structurally simplified forest stands. Most of the entomological variables (namely, Families, Species, Total individuals, Saproxylic individuals, Staphylinidae, Elateridae, Nothodes parvulus, Curculionidae, Ernoporus fagi, Phyllobius emery) were clumped, highlighting the existence of aggregation areas in the sampled forest. In several cases the insect distribution was linked to the spatial pattern of forest attributes, particularly deadwood components. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Parisi, F; Sciarretta, A; Trematerra, P] Univ Molise, Dipartimento Agr Ambiente & Alimenti, Via Sanctis, I-86100 Campobasso, Italy; [Lombardi, F] Univ Mediterranea Reggio Calabria, Dipartimento AGR, I-89122 Reggio Di Calabria, Italy; [Parisi, F; Tognetti, R; Marchetti, M] Univ Molise, Dipartimento Biosci & Terr, I-86090 Pesche, Isernia, Italy; [Tognetti, R] Edmund Mach Fdn, EFI Project Ctr Mt Forests MOUNTFOR, I-38010 San Michele All Adige, Trenato, Italy; [Campanaro, A] Corpo Forestale Stato, Ctr Nazl Studio & Conservaz Biodiversita Forestal, Str Mantova 29, I-46045 Marmirolo, Mantova, Italy; [Campanaro, A] Consiglio Ric Agr & Anal Econ Agr, Ctr Ric Agrobiol & Pedol, Via Lanciola 12-A, I-50125 Florence, Italy	Parisi, F (reprint author), Univ Molise, Dipartimento Agr Ambiente & Alimenti, Via Sanctis, I-86100 Campobasso, Italy.	francesco.parisi@unimol.it	Sciarretta, Andrea/C-5307-2008; Tognetti, Roberto/C-4962-2008; CAMPANARO, ALESSANDRO/; Trematerra, Pasquale/	Sciarretta, Andrea/0000-0002-9443-4816; Tognetti, Roberto/0000-0002-7771-6176; CAMPANARO, ALESSANDRO/0000-0003-4043-6362; Trematerra, Pasquale/0000-0001-8584-0882	5	51	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2016	DEC	381					217	234	18		EB6VC	CCC:000387522700021					2019-04-10J	Kirby, RBCherry, MJMuller, LIWarren, RJChamberlain, MJConner, LM	Kirby, R. Brian; Cherry, Michael J.; Muller, Lisa I.; Warren, Robert J.; Chamberlain, Michael J.; Conner, L. Mike		Indirect predation management in a longleaf pine ecosystem: Hardwood removal and the spatial ecology of raccoons	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Habitat use, Hardwood removal, Home range, Longleaf pine, Nest predation, Raccoon	MULTISCALE HABITAT SELECTION, CAUSE-SPECIFIC MORTALITY, PRESCRIBED FIRE, NEST PREDATION, PROCYON-LOTOR, CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI, ANTHROPOGENIC RESOURCES, GOPHERUS-POLYPHEMUS, ADULT RACCOONS, SPACE USE	Raccoons (Procyon lotor) are native and ubiquitous throughout much of the continental United States and are invasive in many countries around the world. Where they occur, raccoons are a known predator of ground-nesting birds and herpetofauna. Raccoons often are associated with hardwood trees; therefore, hardwood reduction in open pine (Pinus spp.) forests of the southeastern U.S. may reduce raccoon use while providing suitable habitat for upland ground-nesting species. As a result, some have suggested removal of undesirable hardwoods as a means to manage nest predation by altering raccoon behavior. However, effects of operationally removing hardwoods from an open pine matrix on raccoon home range size and habitat selection are unknown. We compared home range sizes and habitat selection of adult raccoons in a longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) dominated forest before and after large-scale, operational hardwood removal. Male raccoons had larger (P < 0.001) home ranges than females, but home range sizes did not differ (P = 0.54) by period (i.e., before or after hardwood removal). However, raccoon habitat selection at the home range scale varied (P = 0.02) between periods as did selection of habitats within the home range (P = 0.01). When selecting areas for home ranges, raccoons had greater (P = 0.01) affinity for young pine stands following operational hardwood removal. Within the home range, raccoons increased (P = 0.01) selection for wetlands and decreased (P = 0.02) selection for primary roads following hardwood removal. Raccoon habitat selection within the home range did not vary (P = 0.39) seasonally. Pine forests were important when establishing home ranges during both periods, but other habitats (i.e., secondary roads, young pine, hardwood, and mixed pine-hardwood) became equally as important as pine following hardwood removal. Within the home range, hardwood stands remained the most important habitat feature before and after hardwood removal. Our results suggest that raccoons alter habitat selection in response to hardwood removal, which may affect patterns of nest predation by raccoons. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Kirby, RB; Cherry, MJ; Conner, LM] Joseph W Jones Ecol Res Ctr, 3988 Jones Ctr Dr, Newton, GA 39870 USA; [Kirby, RB; Muller, LI] Univ Tennessee, Dept Forestry Wildlife & Fisheries, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Warren, RJ; Chamberlain, MJ] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Cherry, MJ] Virginia Tech, Dept Fish & Wildlife Conservat, Blacksburg, VA 24060 USA	Conner, LM (reprint author), Joseph W Jones Ecol Res Ctr, 3988 Jones Ctr Dr, Newton, GA 39870 USA.	mconner@jonesctr.org			3	66	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2016	DEC	381					327	334	8		EB6VC	CCC:000387522700031					2019-04-10J	Knapp, EERitchie, MW	Knapp, Eric E.; Ritchie, Martin W.		Response of understory vegetation to salvage logging following a high-severity wildfire	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	high-severity wildfire, non-native species, Pinus ponderosa, postfire management, salvage logging, species diversity, species richness, variable retention salvage	PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, WESTERN UNITED-STATES, COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, MIXED-CONIFER FORESTS, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, SIERRA-NEVADA, NORTHEASTERN OREGON, NORTHERN ARIZONA, FIRE SEVERITY, SOUTHERN CASCADES	Timber is frequently salvage-logged following high-severity stand-replacing wildfire, but the practice is controversial. One concern is that compound disturbances could result in more deleterious impacts than either disturbance individually, with mechanical operations having the potential to set back recovering native species and increase invasion by non-native species. Following the 2002 Cone Fire on the Lassen National Forest, three replicates of five salvage treatments were applied to 15 units formerly dominated by ponderosa pine, covering a range of disturbance intensities from unsalvaged to 100% salvaged. Understory species richness and cover data were collected every two years between 2006 and 2012. Richness of both native and non-native species did not differ among salvage treatments, but both showed strong changes over time. While cover of forbs and graminoids did not differ with salvage treatment, cover of shrubs was significantly reduced at the higher salvage intensities. The three main shrub species are all stimulated to germinate by fire, potentially leaving seedlings vulnerable to any mechanical disturbance occurring immediately postgermination. Many other native perennial species emerge from rhizomes or other deeply buried underground structures and appear to be less affected by salvage harvest. Over time, the plant community in all salvage treatments shifted from dominance by shrubs and forbs to shrubs and grasses. Most of the grasses were native, except Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass), which was found in 4% of measurement quadrats in 2006 and 52% in 2012. Our results indicated that understory vegetation change 4-10 years post-high-severity wildfire appeared to be influenced more strongly by factors other than salvage logging.	[Knapp, EE; Ritchie, MW] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, 3644 Avtech Pkwy, Redding, CA 96002 USA	Knapp, EE (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, 3644 Avtech Pkwy, Redding, CA 96002 USA.	eknapp@fs.fed.us			1	27	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2016	NOV	7	11				1550	1550	17		EB2UI	CCC:000387217700012		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Grodsky, SMMoorman, CEFritts, SRHazel, DWHomyack, JACastleberry, SBWigley, TB	Grodsky, Steven M.; Moorman, Christopher E.; Fritts, Sarah R.; Hazel, Dennis W.; Homyack, Jessica A.; Castleberry, Steven B.; Wigley, T. Bently		Winter bird use of harvest residues in clearcuts and the implications of forest bioenergy harvest in the southeastern United States	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biomass harvesting guidelines, Clearcut, Downed wood, Forest bioenergy, Harvest residues, Winter birds	COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, DEAD-WOOD, RENEWABLE ENERGY, CAROLINA WRENS, PINE FORESTS, HABITAT USE, HERPETOFAUNA, COMMUNITIES, DIVERSITY, TECHNOLOGIES	Increased market viability of harvest residues gleaned for forest bioenergy feedstocks may intensify downed wood removal, particularly in intensively managed forests of the Southeast. Downed wood provides food and cover for many wildlife species, including birds, yet we are aware of no study that has examined winter bird response to experimentally manipulated, operational-scale woody biomass harvests. Further, little research has investigated avian use of dovined wood following timber harvests. As such, our objectives were to: (1) evaluate effects of varying intensities of woody biomass harvest on the winter bird community and (2) document spatial associations between winter bird species and available habitat structure, including downed wood, in regenerating stands. In January and February of 2012-2014, we surveyed birds using a modified version of spot-mapping in six woody biomass removal treatments in North Carolina, USA (n = 4 regenerating stands). Treatments included clearcut harvest followed by: (1) traditional woody biomass harvest with no biomass harvesting guidelines; (2) 15% retention with harvest residues dispersed; (3) 15% retention with harvest residues clustered; (4) 30% retention with harvest residues dispersed; (5) 30% retention with harvest residues clustered; and (6) no woody biomass harvest (i.e., reference). We tested for treatment-level effects on avian relative abundance (overall and individual species), species diversity and richness, and counts of winter birds detected near (,41 m from pile), in, or on branches of downed wood piles and calculated proportional avian habitat use of harvest residues and vegetation in regenerating stands. In 69 visits over three winters, we observed 3352 birds in treatments. In 2013, counts of birds detected in piles were greater in the no biomass harvest and 30% clustered treatments than the no biomass harvesting guidelines treatment. In 2012 and 2013 combined, mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) had greater relative abundance in the no biomass harvest treatment compared to the 15% dispersed treatment and was more often detected within 1 m of downed wood piles than in vegetation. We counted more winter birds in and near adjacent forest edge than in treatment interiors each year. Overall, we detected minimal treatment effects on winter bird relative abundance and no effects on species diversity and richness. Relative abundance of winter birds increased over time as vegetative cover established in regenerating stands. Our results suggest woody biomass harvests in intensively managed pine forests had no effect on the winter bird community, but winter birds used harvest residues. Further, vegetation structure and composition, rather than availability of harvest residues, primarily influenced winter bird use of regenerating stands. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Grodsky, SM; Moorman, CE; Fritts, SR] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Forestry & Environm Resources, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Box 7646, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Hazel, DW] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Forestry & Environm Resources, Box 7646, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Homyack, JA] Weyerhaeuser Co, 1785 Weyerhaeuser Rd, Vanceboro, NC 28586 USA; [Castleberry, SB] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Wigley, TB] Natl Council Air & Stream Improvement Inc, POB 340317, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Fritts, SR] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Nat Resources Management, POB 42125, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA	Grodsky, SM (reprint author), North Carolina State Univ, Dept Forestry & Environm Resources, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol Program, Box 7646, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA.	smgrodsk@ncsu.edu			1	37	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2016	NOV	379					91	101	11		DW7FM	CCC:000383816600010					2019-04-10J	Tingley, MWRuiz-Gutierrez, VWilkerson, RLHowell, CASiegel, RB	Tingley, Morgan W.; Ruiz-Gutierrez, Viviana; Wilkerson, Robert L.; Howell, Christine A.; Siegel, Rodney B.		Pyrodiversity promotes avian diversity over the decade following forest fire	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES			English	Article	Life Sciences (LS)	EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	bird diversity, post-fire ecosystems, time since fire, mixed-severity fire, hierarchical Bayesian, occupancy	MIXED-CONIFER FORESTS, SIERRA-NEVADA, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, ANT COMMUNITIES, SEVERITY, USA, WILDFIRE, REGIMES, MANAGEMENT	An emerging hypothesis in fire ecology is that pyrodiversity increases species diversity. We test whether pyrodiversity-defined as the standard deviation of fire severity-increases avian biodiversity at two spatial scales, and whether and how this relationship may change in the decade following fire. We use a dynamic Bayesian community model applied to a multi-year dataset of bird surveys at 1106 points sampled across 97 fires in montane California. Our results provide strong support for a positive relationship between pyrodiversity and bird diversity. This relationship interacts with time since fire, with pyrodiversity having a greater effect on biodiversity at 10 years post-fire than at 1 year post-fire. Immediately after fires, patches of differing burn severities hold similar bird communities, but over the ensuing decade, bird assemblages within patches of contrasting severities differentiate. When evaluated at the scale of individual fires, fires with a greater heterogeneity of burn severities hold substantially more species. High spatial heterogeneity in severity, sometimes called 'mixed-severity fire', is a natural part of wildfire regimes in western North America, but may be jeopardized by climate change and a legacy of fire suppression. Forest management that encourages mixed-severity fire may be critical for sustaining biodiversity across fire-prone landscapes.	[Tingley, MW] Univ Connecticut, Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 75 North Eagleville Rd,Unit 3043, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Tingley, MW; Wilkerson, RL; Siegel, RB] Inst Bird Populat, POB 1346, Point Reyes Stn, CA 94956 USA; [Ruiz-Gutierrez, V] Cornell Lab Ornithol, 159 Sapsucker Woods Rd, Ithaca, NY 14850 USA; [Howell, CA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Reg, 1323 Club Dr, Vallejo, CA 94592 USA; [Howell, CA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Reg Stn, 800 Buchanan St, Albany, CA 94710 USA	Tingley, MW (reprint author), Univ Connecticut, Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 75 North Eagleville Rd,Unit 3043, Storrs, CT 06269 USA.; Tingley, MW (reprint author), Inst Bird Populat, POB 1346, Point Reyes Stn, CA 94956 USA.	morgan.tingley@uconn.edu		Tingley, Morgan/0000-0002-1477-2218	15	82	ROYAL SOC	LONDON	6-9 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, LONDON SW1Y 5AG, ENGLAND	http://royalsocietypublishing.org/journals	0962-8452		P ROY SOC B-BIOL SCI	Proc. R. Soc. B-Biol. Sci.	2016	OCT	283	1840				61703	61703	9		EA3GN	CCC:000386490000014		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Ashbrook, KTaylor, AJane, LCarter, ISzekely, T	Ashbrook, Kate; Taylor, Andrew; Jane, Louise; Carter, Ian; Szekely, Tamas		Impacts of survival and reproductive success on the long-term population viability of reintroduced great bustards Otis tarda in the UK	ORYX			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Captive rearing, conservation, habitat management, monitoring, release strategy	NATAL DISPERSAL, POWER-LINES, TRANSLOCATION, PROGRAMS, BEHAVIOR, ANIMALS, ECOLOGY, BIOLOGY, FLIGHT, BIRD	Reintroductions aim to re-establish species within their historical ranges through the release of wild- or captive-bred individuals following extirpation (or extinction) in the wild. There is no general agreement on what constitutes a successful reintroduction but the probability of the population achieving long-term persistence should be addressed. Here we review a 10-year trial reintroduction of the great bustard Otis tarda, a globally threatened bird species, to the UK and assess the long-term population viability. Despite changes in rearing and release strategy, initial post-release survival probability remained consistently low, with only 11.3% of bustards (n = 167) surviving from release to. year post-release. Nineteen breeding attempts were made by eight females; however, only one chick survived > 100 days after hatching, and no wild juveniles have recruited into the population. Using demographic rates from the UK population and wild populations elsewhere, and stochastic population modelling, we investigate the viability of this reintroduced population by predicting population size over the next 10 years. Under current demographic rates the population was predicted to decline rapidly. Self-sufficiency was predicted only using the highest estimates from the UK population for first-year and adult survival, and recruitment rates from wild populations elsewhere. Although changes have been made in rearing, release strategies, habitat management and release sites used, these changes appear to have a modest effect on long-term viability. Substantial improvements in survival rates and productivity are necessary to establish a viable great bustard population in the UK, and we consider this unlikely.	[Ashbrook, K; Szekely, T] Univ Bath, Dept Biol & Biochem, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Taylor, A; Jane, L] Royal Soc Protect Birds, Sandy, Beds, England; [Carter, I] Nat England, Whittington Rd, Worcester, England; [Ashbrook, K] Univ Worcester, Inst Sci & Environm, Worcester WR2 6AJ, England	Ashbrook, K (reprint author), Univ Bath, Dept Biol & Biochem, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England.; Ashbrook, K (reprint author), Univ Worcester, Inst Sci & Environm, Worcester WR2 6AJ, England.	k.ashbrook@worc.ac.uk			4	37	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0030-6053		ORYX	Oryx	2016	OCT	50	4				583	592	10		DW4IU	CCC:000383607200008		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Pakanen, VMAikio, SLuukkonen, AKoivula, K	Pakanen, Veli-Matti; Aikio, Sami; Luukkonen, Aappo; Koivula, Kari		Grazed wet meadows are sink habitats for the southern dunlin (Calidris alpina schinzii) due to nest trampling by cattle	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	conservation, dispersal, management, nest trampling, recruitment, restoration, shorebird	AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, COASTAL MEADOWS, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, POPULATION-DYNAMICS, BREEDING DISPERSAL, APPARENT SURVIVAL, ECOLOGICAL TRAPS, MARKED ANIMALS, MANAGEMENT, WADER	The effect of habitat management is commonly evaluated by measuring population growth, which does not distinguish changes in reproductive success from changes in survival or the effects of immigration or emigration. Management has rarely been evaluated considering complete life cycle of the target organisms, including also possible negative impacts from management. We evaluated the effectiveness of cattle grazing in the restoration of coastal meadows as a breeding habitat for small and medium-sized ground-nesting birds by examining the size and demography of a southern dunlin (Calidris alpina schinzii) breeding population. Using a stochastic renesting model that includes within-season variation in breeding parameters, we evaluated the effect of grazing time and stocking rates on reproduction. The census data indicated that the population was stable when nest trampling was prevented, but detailed demographic models showed that the population on managed meadows was a sink that persisted by attracting immigrants. Even small reductions in reproductive success caused by trampling were detrimental to long-term viability. We suggest that the best management strategy is to postpone grazing to after the 19th of June, which is about three weeks later than what is optimal from the farmer's point of view. The differing results from the two evaluation approaches warn against planning and evaluating management only based on census population size and highlight the need to consider target-specific life history characteristics and demography. Even though grazing management is crucial for creating and maintaining suitable habitats, we found that it was insufficient in maintaining a viable population without additional measures that increase nest success. In the presently studied case and in populations with similar breeding cycles, impacts from nest trampling can be avoided by starting grazing when about 70% of the breeding season has past.	[Pakanen, VM; Aikio, S; Luukkonen, A; Koivula, K] Univ Oulu, Dept Ecol, POB 3000, FIN-90014 Oulu, Finland; [Aikio, S] Univ Helsinki, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Bot Unit, POB 7, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland	Pakanen, VM (reprint author), Univ Oulu, Dept Ecol, POB 3000, FIN-90014 Oulu, Finland.	veli-matti.pakanen@oulu.fi	Pakanen, Veli-Matti/L-8134-2015		1	10	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2045-7758		ECOL EVOL	Ecol. Evol.	2016	OCT	6	20				7176	7187	12		EA2NA	CCC:000386429200002	28725390	DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DBCandy, SGMacGregor, CIBanks, SCWestgate, MIkin, KPierson, JTulloch, ABarton, P	Lindenmayer, David B.; Candy, Steven G.; MacGregor, Christopher I.; Banks, Sam C.; Westgate, Martin; Ikin, Karen; Pierson, Jennifer; Tulloch, Ayesha; Barton, Philip		Do temporal changes in vegetation structure additional to time since fire predict changes in bird occurrence?	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biodiversity conservation, disaggregation, moderated-mediation analysis, multiple regression, occurrence, vegetation, wildfire	MODERATED MEDIATION, EASTERN BRISTLEBIRD, LONG-TERM, SEVERITY, WILDFIRE, MODELS, RESPONSES, DISTURBANCE, LANDSCAPE, FORESTS	Fire is a major ecological process in ecosystems globally. Its impacts on fauna can be both direct (e.g., mortality) and indirect (e.g., altered habitat), resulting in population recovery being driven by several possible mechanisms. Separating direct from indirect impacts of fire on faunal population recovery can be valuable in guiding management of biodiversity in fire-prone environments. However, resolving the influence of direct and indirect processes remains a key challenge because many processes affecting fauna can change concomitantly with time since fire. We explore the mechanisms influencing bird response to fire by posing the question, can temporal changes in vegetation structure predict changes in bird occurrence on sites, and can these be separated from other temporal changes using the surrogate of time since fire? We conducted a 12-yr study of bird and vegetation responses to fire at 124 sites across six vegetation classes in Booderee National Park, Australia. Approximately half of these sites, established in 2002, were burned by a large (>3000 ha) wildfire in 2003. To disentangle collinear effects of temporal changes in vegetation and direct demographic effects on population recovery that are subsumed by time since fire, we incorporated both longitudinal and cross-sectional vegetation effects in addition to time since fire within logistic structural equation models. We identified temporal changes in vegetation structure and richness of plant and bird species that characterized burned and unburned sites in all vegetation classes. For nine bird species, a significant component of the year trend was driven by temporal trends in one of three vegetation variables (number of understory or midstory plant species, or midstory cover). By contrast, we could not separate temporal effects between time since fire and vegetation attributes for bird species richness, reporting rate, and the occurrence of 11 other bird species. Our findings help identify species for which indirect effects of vegetation dominate recovery and thus may benefit from vegetation management where conservation actions are required and, conversely, those species for which direct effects of time since fire drive recovery, where simply leaving a system to recover following the last disturbance will be sufficient.	[Lindenmayer, DB; Candy, SG; MacGregor, CI; Banks, SC; Westgate, M; Ikin, K; Pierson, J; Tulloch, A; Barton, P] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; Ikin, K; Tulloch, A] Australian Natl Univ, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; MacGregor, CI; Ikin, K; Tulloch, A] Australian Natl Univ, Natl Environm Sci Program, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; MacGregor, CI] Australian Natl Univ, Terr Ecosyst Res Network, Long Term Ecol Res Network, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Candy, SG] SCandy Stat Consulting, 70 Burwood Dr, Blackmans Bay, Tas 7052, Australia	Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Natl Environm Sci Program, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.; Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Terr Ecosyst Res Network, Long Term Ecol Res Network, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.	david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au	Tulloch, Ayesha/E-4408-2012; Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017; Ikin, Karen/G-2845-2012; Barton, Philip/A-6400-2010; Westgate, Martin/; /	Tulloch, Ayesha/0000-0002-5866-1923; Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088; Barton, Philip/0000-0002-8377-2211; Westgate, Martin/0000-0003-0854-2034; /0000-0003-2415-0057	3	27	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2016	OCT	26	7				2267	2279	13		DZ1TR	CCC:000385623900023	27755726				2019-04-10J	Hawa, AAzhar, BTop, MMZubaid, A	Hawa, Ainil; Azhar, Badrul; Top, Marina Mohd; Zubaid, Akbar		Depauperate Avifauna in Tropical Peat Swamp Forests Following Logging and Conversion to Oil Palm Agriculture: Evidence from Mist-netting Data	WETLANDS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Peat swamp, Oil palm, Avian diversity, Feeding guilds, Logging	PENINSULAR MALAYSIA, CENTRAL KALIMANTAN, CONSERVATION VALUE, UNDERSTORY BIRDS, FRUIT BATS, BIODIVERSITY, SMALLHOLDINGS, RESPONSES, FRAGMENTATION, MONOCULTURE	Increased demand for oil palms has led to a massive expansion of logging and conversion of peat swamp forests in Southeast Asia. Although palm oil is a primary driver of economic growth, the unsustainable expansion of the oil palm industry has led to the widespread degradation of peat swamp forests. Birds have been studied to determine their responses to landscape changes in the North Selangor Peat Swamp Forest (NSPSF). We captured 1045 birds from 72 species of the NSPSF and 168 individual birds from 13 species in oil palm plantations using mist-netting. Our results show that peat swamp forest supports more bird species than the oil palm areas. Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling revealed that both vegetation types had an influence on bird species composition. SIMPER analysis also showed that the percentage of the assemblage similarity within the oil palm areas was 51.30 %, while it was 31.32 % in the peat swamp. We found that the populations of frugivores, insectivores, and omnivores were significantly higher in the peat swamp forest, whereas there was no significant difference in the granivores between the two sites. To conserve peat swamp forests, stakeholders should implement habitat restoration, maintain landscape connectivity, and retain a forest area network.	[Hawa, A] Univ Selangor, Fac Sci & Biotechnol, Selangor 45600, Bestari Jaya, Malaysia; [Hawa, A; Zubaid, A] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia; [Azhar, B] Univ Putra Malaysia, Inst Biosci, Biodivers Unit, Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia; [Azhar, B] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia; [Top, MM] Univ Putra Malaysia, Ctr Fdn Studies Agr Sci, Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia	Hawa, A (reprint author), Univ Selangor, Fac Sci & Biotechnol, Selangor 45600, Bestari Jaya, Malaysia.; Hawa, A (reprint author), Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia.	ainil@unisel.edu.my			5	38	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0277-5212		WETLANDS	Wetlands	2016	OCT	36	5				899	908	10		DY5SF	CCC:000385162100011					2019-04-10J	de Groot, MEler, KFlajsman, KGrebenc, TMarinsek, AKutnar, L	de Groot, Maarten; Eler, Klemen; Flajsman, Katarina; Grebenc, Tine; Marinsek, Aleksander; Kutnar, Lado		Differential short-term response of functional groups to a change in forest management in a temperate forest	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Forest gaps, Forest biodiversity, Close-to-nature silviculture, Indicator species, Pioneer species, Logging experiment	TO-NATURE SILVICULTURE, BEETLES COLEOPTERA, DOMINATED FORESTS, CARABID BEETLES, BOREAL FORESTS, CLIMATE-CHANGE, BIODIVERSITY, DIVERSITY, SYRPHIDAE, COMMUNITIES	Forests have high biodiversity, but are under threat worldwide. Sustainable forest management such as close-to-nature silviculture is needed. In this context forest management practices should be tested in regard to biodiversity. Therefore, we investigated the influence of gap formation and logging intensity on different functional groups in a close-to-nature managed fir-beech forest. Plots were selected in three areas in the Dinaric Mountains in Slovenia. In every area, nine plots were selected per area, of which three were established as control plots, three were treated with 50% logging and three with 100% logging. In every plot, the species of different functional groups were observed: ectomycorrhizal fungi, ferns, graminoids, forbs, hoverflies, carabid beetles and birds. For each of these groups, the species richness, species assemblage dissimilarity and indicator species were calculated for the different treatments. Ectomycorrhizal fungi and birds both responded to high logging intensity with a sharp decrease in the number of species; however, the results for ectomycorrhizal fungi were highly nested, while some additional bird species appeared. Graminoids and forbs were positively affected by logging intensity and saw increases in the number of species. Forbs had an almost completely new species assemblage compared to the forest species assemblages. Hoverflies were most favored by 50% logging, as these plots contained species from open areas and forest. Ferns and carabid beetles did not exhibit a response to different logging intensities. The number of indicator species was highly affected by the total number of species of the groups. However, which treatment they indicated was independent of the species richness but varied strongly per species group. The variability in responses shows that functional groups react differently to logging intensities, and the use of more functional groups improved the detection of changes due to logging. Fifty percent removal of the growing stock retained the diversity of most of the studied groups. The association of the group to vegetation structure, host species specificity or abiotic factors made them more responsive to the change associated with retention logging. The results are discussed in the context of forest management implications in regard to biodiversity. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[de Groot, M; Eler, K; Flajsman, K; Grebenc, T; Marinsek, A; Kutnar, L] Slovenian Forestry Inst, Vecna Pot 2, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Eler, K] Univ Ljubljana, Biotech Fac, Jamnikarjeva 101, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia	de Groot, M (reprint author), Slovenian Forestry Inst, Vecna Pot 2, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.	maarten.degroot@gozdis.si		de Groot, Maarten/0000-0002-5721-6676	8	50	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2016	SEP	376					256	264	9		DT1HY	CCC:000381233500026					2019-04-10J	Stevens, JTCollins, BMLong, JWNorth, MPPrichard, SJTarnay, LWWhite, AM	Stevens, Jens T.; Collins, Brandon M.; Long, Jonathan W.; North, Malcolm P.; Prichard, Susan J.; Tarnay, Leland W.; White, Angela M.		Evaluating potential trade-offs among fuel treatment strategies in mixed-conifer forests of the Sierra Nevada	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	fire severity, forest management, fuel treatments, Lake Tahoe Basin, particulate matter, smoke, trade-offs, wildlife habitat	WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE, LAKE TAHOE BASIN, FIRE BEHAVIOR, REDUCTION TREATMENTS, WILDFIRE, MANAGEMENT, CALIFORNIA, SEVERITY, CARBON, RESILIENCE	Fuel treatments in fire-suppressed mixed-conifer forests are designed to moderate potential wildfire behavior and effects. However, the objectives for modifying potential fire effects can vary widely, from improving fire suppression efforts and protecting infrastructure, to reintroducing low-severity fire, to restoring and maintaining variable forest structure and wildlife habitat. In designing a fuel treatment, managers can alter the treatment's prescription, placement, and extent (collectively the "treatment strategy") to optimally meet one objective. However, the potential for trade-offs among different objectives is rarely tested systematically in fire-prone landscapes. To evaluate trade-offs in mechanical fuel treatment objectives related to fire severity, smoke production, forest heterogeneity, and avian wildlife habitat, we used a cross-platform modeling approach based on spatially explicit modifications of forest structure data for a 7820-ha landscape in the Lake Tahoe Basin, California. We examine whether (1) a more uniform treatment strategy aimed at fire hazard reduction (FHR) had negative effects on wildlife diversity, (2) a strategy focused on protecting the wildland-urban interface (WUI) left other portions of the landscape vulnerable to high-severity fire, and (3) increasing the extent of fuel treatments across the landscape led to greater reductions in fire severity and smoke emissions. When approximately 13% of the landscape was treated, the proportion of the landscape vulnerable to high-severity fire decreased by 13-44%, with the more uniform FHR strategy leading to greater reductions. Slight increases in predicted avian species richness that followed all treatment strategies were not closely linked to increases in canopy variability. The WUI protection strategy led to considerable reductions in fire severity at the landscape scale. Increasing the extent of treatments to 30% of the landscape did little to further reduce the area vulnerable to high-severity fire, with additional reductions of 4-7% depending on the prescription. However, increasing the extent of treatments reduced the extent of harmful downwind smoke impacts, primarily by reducing rate of fire spread. Treatment strategies will depend on specific management objectives, but we illustrate that trade-offs are not necessarily inherent in general outcomes of fuel treatments.	[Stevens, JT] Univ Calif Davis, John Muir Inst Environm, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Collins, BM] Univ Calif Berkeley, Ctr Fire Res & Outreach, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA; [Collins, BM; Long, JW; North, MP; Tarnay, LW; White, AM] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Davis, CA 95618 USA; [Prichard, SJ] Univ Washington, Coll Forest Resources, Seattle, WA 98195 USA	Stevens, JT (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, John Muir Inst Environm, Davis, CA 95616 USA.	jtstevens@ucdavis.edu		Stevens, Jens/0000-0002-2234-1960	8	24	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2016	SEP	7	9				1445	1445	21		EB2RR	CCC:000387210100007		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Kirschbaum, AAPfaff, EGafvert, UB	Kirschbaum, Alan A.; Pfaff, Eric; Gafvert, Ulf B.		Are US national parks in the Upper Midwest acting as refugia? Inside vs. outside park disturbance regimes	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	blowdown, fire, forest harvest, Great Lakes Network, Landsat, landscape dynamics, National Park Service	BEAVER CASTOR-CANADENSIS, FOREST INVENTORY DATA, CLIMATE-CHANGE, ISLE-ROYALE, NATURAL DISTURBANCE, VEGETATION DYNAMICS, NORTHERN WISCONSIN, SPECIES RICHNESS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, DETECTING TRENDS	Landscape disturbances such as forest harvest, blowdowns, fire, and development activities create patches on the landscape that modify the structure and integrity of ecosystems. Understanding the agents of change, where they occur, and how much of the landscape they are affecting will assist resource managers in making difficult decisions. To fulfill this goal, the National Park Service implemented a long-term monitoring program to quantify landscape dynamics across 1.5 million ha within and adjacent to eight national parks in the Upper Midwest United States using an automated satellite-based change detection program called LandTrendr (Landsat-based detection of trends in disturbance and recovery). The disturbance agents detected inside parks included beaver, blowdown, development, fire, flooding, insect/disease, and forest harvest. Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore had the largest percentage of area affected inside a park (11.83%, 1.96% per yr), and Isle Royal National Park had the lowest percentage of land affected (0.03%, 0.05% per yr). Tree defoliation due to insect/disease affected the largest percentage of land inside parks (1.56%, or 0.26% per yr) but did not result in tree mortality. Adjacent to parks, disturbance agents detected included agriculture, beaver, blowdown, development, insect/disease, fire, flooding, and forest harvest. Lands adjacent to Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore experienced the highest rate of disturbance (8.75%, 1.45% per yr), largely due to forest harvests. The lands adjacent to the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area experienced the lowest percentage of change (0.62%, 0.10% per yr), with development activities being responsible for most of the change. Forest harvesting was the major change agent outside six of the eight parks, an indication of how important the wood products industry is in the region and the level to which this region is forested. These national parks are acting as integral buffers from adjacent lands that either do not have the ability or lack the capacity to allow the ecosystem to function without intensive management efforts.	[Kirschbaum, AA; Gafvert, UB] Natl Pk Serv, Great Lakes Inventory & Monitoring Network, Ashland, WI 54806 USA; [Pfaff, E] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA	Kirschbaum, AA (reprint author), Natl Pk Serv, Great Lakes Inventory & Monitoring Network, Ashland, WI 54806 USA.	al_kirschbaum@nps.gov			1	28	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2016	SEP	7	9				1467	1467	15		EB2RR	CCC:000387210100015		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Mountjoy, NJWhiles, MRSpyreas, GLovvorn, JRSeekamp, E	Mountjoy, Natalie J.; Whiles, Matt R.; Spyreas, Greg; Lovvorn, James R.; Seekamp, Erin		Assessing the efficacy of community-based natural resource management planning with a multi-watershed approach	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Adaptive management, Community-based conservation, Community-based natural resource management, Management plans, Monitoring framework	ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, ADAPTIVE MANAGEMENT, FOREST, CONSERVATION, CAPACITY, IMPLEMENTATION, ECOSYSTEMS, DIVERSITY, RECOVERY, WILDLIFE	Community-based natural resource management groups often develop plans with management objectives and conservation goals for specified areas. However, assessments of the environmental outcomes achieved by such planning initiatives are rare at large scales because of: 1) the lack of appropriate data collection and monitoring, 2) difficulty in isolating the effects of management actions from external environmental variables, and 3) the inherent variability in implementation timing across multiple managed areas. We developed a methodology that partially overcomes these common barriers. Using a unique time-related measure and trend analysis, we tested our methodology with community-based natural resource management plans across Illinois along with plant and bird community data. We found evidence that community-based natural resource management planning is having positive ecological influences across these habitats. Effects were most evident for habitat-dependent and area-sensitive bird species, and for bird species richness, which showed a positive threshold change 78 years post plan implementation. We recommend our analytical framework and methods for those working to link management actions with ecological change. Our approach is particularly relevant for community based natural resource management groups looking to implement self-assessment and adaptive management, as well as bridging organizations (e.g., state or federal agencies) seeking to assist community-based natural resource management groups in management efforts. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Mountjoy, NJ; Whiles, MR; Lovvorn, JR] Southern Illinois Univ, Dept Zool, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Mountjoy, NJ; Whiles, MR; Lovvorn, JR] Southern Illinois Univ, Ctr Ecol, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Spyreas, G] Illinois Nat Hist Survey, 1816 South Oak St,MC 652, Champaign, IL 61820 USA; [Seekamp, E] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Pk Recreat & Tourism Management, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA	Mountjoy, NJ (reprint author), Southern Illinois Univ, Dept Zool, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA.; Mountjoy, NJ (reprint author), Southern Illinois Univ, Ctr Ecol, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA.	nmountjoy0001@kctcs.edu			1	17	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2016	SEP	201					120	128	9		DY0JJ	CCC:000384782800013					2019-04-10J	Neeson, TMSmith, SDPAllan, JDMcIntyre, PB	Neeson, Thomas M.; Smith, Sigrid D. P.; Allan, J. David; McIntyre, Peter B.		Prioritizing ecological restoration among sites in multi-stressor landscapes	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	cumulative impact, fresh water, prioritization, restoration, stressor interactions, synergy	ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, RIVER RESTORATION, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, STREAM RESTORATION, PROTECTED AREAS, THREATS, INVESTMENT, IMPACT, UNCERTAINTY, DIRECTIONS	Most ecosystems are impacted by multiple local and long-distance stressors, many of which interact in complex ways. We present a framework for prioritizing ecological restoration efforts among sites in multi-stressor landscapes. Using a simple model, we show that both the economic and sociopolitical costs of restoration will typically be lower at sites with a relatively small number of severe problems than at sites with numerous lesser problems. Based on these results, we propose using cumulative stress and evenness of stressor impact as complementary indices that together reflect key challenges of restoring a site to improved condition. To illustrate this approach, we analyze stressor evenness across the world's rivers and the Laurentian Great Lakes. This exploration reveals that evenness and cumulative stress are decoupled, enabling selection of sites where remediating a modest number of high-intensity stressors could substantially reduce cumulative stress. Just as species richness and species evenness are fundamental axes of biological diversity, we argue that cumulative stress and stressor evenness constitute fundamental axes for identifying restoration opportunities in multi-stressor landscapes. Our results highlight opportunities to boost restoration efficiency through strategic use of multi-stressor datasets to identify sites that maximize ecological response per stressor remediated. This prioritization framework can also be expanded to account for the feasibility of remediation and the expected societal benefits of restoration projects.	[Neeson, TM] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Geog & Environm Sustainabil, 100 East Boyd St, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Smith, SDP; Allan, JD] Univ Michigan, Sch Nat Resources & Environm, 440 Church St, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [McIntyre, PB] Univ Wisconsin, Ctr Limnol, 680 North Pk St, Madison, WI 53706 USA	Neeson, TM (reprint author), Univ Oklahoma, Dept Geog & Environm Sustainabil, 100 East Boyd St, Norman, OK 73019 USA.	neeson@ou.edu			1	40	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2016	SEP	26	6				1785	1796	12		DW0UJ	CCC:000383358000015	27755704				2019-04-10J	Kajtoch, LWilk, TBobrek, RMatysek, M	Kajtoch, Lukasz; Wilk, Tomasz; Bobrek, Rafal; Matysek, Marcin		The importance of forests along submontane stream valleys for bird conservation: The Carpathian example	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		BENTHIC INVERTEBRATE COMMUNITIES, WHITE-BACKED WOODPECKER, GROUSE BONASA-BONASIA, BIALOWIEZA FOREST, BOREAL FORESTS, OLD-GROWTH, POLISH CARPATHIANS, TEMPERATE FOREST, RIPARIAN FORESTS, BUFFER STRIPS	The biodiversity and naturalness of forests that cover stream valleys in submontane areas have not been investigated as intensively as riparian forests along large lowland rivers. In this study we compared data on total bird assemblages and on selected indicator species detected in forests along submontane stream valleys ('Vall') with those detected in forests covering submontane slopes and tops in the foothills ('Hill') of the Western Carpathians, considering also environmental characteristics of the studied locations. The aim of this study was to verify the hypothesis that forests along submontane stream valleys harbour significantly richer and more diverse bird communities and that they are an important habitat for rare and threatened species. We found that the species richness, abundance of birds and bird diversity were almost twice as high in 'Vall' than in 'Hill' locations and that indicator species mostly or exclusively inhabit 'Vall' locations. Moreover, species diversity was highly and positively correlated with higher tree species diversity and a higher amount of large trees and dead wood, but negatively correlated with logging intensity. The results of our study confirmed that forested river valleys in submontane areas play an important role as refugia both for rare and endangered bird species as well as for the whole bird assemblage. This study is the first to present an assessment of this type of habitat for birds in the Western Carpathians. Forests along submontane stream valleys, if protected or unmanaged, could be treated as reference areas for nature and biodiversity conservation.	[Kajtoch, L] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Systemat & Evolut Anim, Slawkowska 17, PL-31016 Krakow, Poland; [Wilk, T; Bobrek, R] Polish Soc Protect Birds, Odrowaza 24, PL-05270 Marki, Poland; [Matysek, M] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Nat Conservat, A Mickiewicza 33, PL-3112 Krakow, Poland	Kajtoch, L (reprint author), Polish Acad Sci, Inst Systemat & Evolut Anim, Slawkowska 17, PL-31016 Krakow, Poland.	lukasz.kajtoch@gmail.com	Borlea, Gheorghe Florian/U-7119-2017	Borlea, Gheorghe Florian/0000-0002-5685-4107	3	16	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2016	SEP	26	3				350	365	16		DT5EA	CCC:000381502700008					2019-04-10J	Vauhkonen, JImponen, J	Vauhkonen, Jari; Imponen, Joni		Unsupervised classification of airborne laser scanning data to locate potential wildlife habitats for forest management planning	FORESTRY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	biodiversity, habitat suitability, remote sensing, light detection and ranging (LiDAR), isocluster, data mining	BIRD SPECIES-DIVERSITY, FORM LIDAR DATA, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, BOREAL FOREST, WAVE-FORM, STRUCTURAL COMPLEXITY, CANOPY-STRUCTURE, LANDSCAPE SCALE, SPATIAL-PATTERN, DATA-COLLECTION	To account for ecological objectives in forest management planning, potential habitats need to be mapped, characterized and evaluated for utility in alternative management practices. Airborne laser scanning (ALS) is increasingly used to derive predictive maps of habitat quality. Unlike ecologically driven approaches that require spatially and temporally co-located training data of the specific species, we tested whether indicative information on the habitat potential could be obtained by means of an unsupervised classification of ALS data. Based on a literature review, altogether five ALS features quantifying vegetation height, cover and diversity were expected to capture the essential variation in the habitat requirements of western capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus L.) and hazel grouse (Tetrastes bonasia L.), which are the most important game birds occurring in the studied area. The features were extracted from sparse density, leaf-off ALS data at a resolution of 256 m(2) and partitioned using an unsupervised k-means algorithm. By analysing the persistence of the cluster ensemble formed by the partitioning, altogether 158 plots in 16 structural classes were assigned for field measurements to determine which real-world forest phenomena affected the clustering. The clustering was found to stratify the area mainly in terms of size-related attributes such as timber volume and basal area. The understorey, shrub and herb layers had less correspondence with the clustering, indicating that an unsupervised classification is not directly suitable for habitat mapping. The result was improved using empirical threshold values for the ALS features determined according to the plots labelled as the most potential habitats in the field measurements. This semi-supervised classification of the data indicated 4 per cent of the total forest area as suitable for the specific species, which appears a reasonable estimate of the core area of the habitats considered. Overall, the partitioning formed aggregated, stand-like spatial patterns, even though the neighbourhoods of the individual 256 m(2) cells were not considered at all. The result could be further refined by spatial optimization to produce indicative maps for forest management planning with ALS as the sole data source.	[Vauhkonen, J] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Yliopistokatu 7,POB 111, FI-80101 Joensuu, Finland; [Vauhkonen, J; Imponen, J] Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, Latokartanonkaari 7,POB 27, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland	Vauhkonen, J (reprint author), Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Yliopistokatu 7,POB 111, FI-80101 Joensuu, Finland.; Vauhkonen, J (reprint author), Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, Latokartanonkaari 7,POB 27, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland.	jari.vauhkonen@uef.fi	Vauhkonen, Jari/G-8441-2012		7	43	OXFORD UNIV PRESS	OXFORD	GREAT CLARENDON ST, OXFORD OX2 6DP, ENGLAND	http://www.oxfordjournals.org	0015-752X		FORESTRY	Forestry	2016	AUG	89	4				350	363	14		DW8IR	CCC:000383899000003		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Robinson, NMLeonard, SWJBennett, AFClarke, MF	Robinson, Natasha M.; Leonard, Steve W. J.; Bennett, Andrew F.; Clarke, Michael F.		Are forest gullies refuges for birds when burnt? The value of topographical heterogeneity to avian diversity in a fire-prone landscape	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Homogeneous fire, Disturbance, Foothill forest, Biological legacies, Black Saturday Bushfire, Moisture gradient	SOUTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, EUCALYPT FORESTS, NATIONAL-PARK, WILDFIRE, IMPACT, SUCCESSION, INSIGHTS, VICTORIA, USA, ASSEMBLAGES	In forest ecosystems, uniformity in fire spread may be moderated by topography such that sheltered areas (e.g. gullies) escape fire. However, gullies are not immune to fire and, under extreme fire weather conditions, can burn. This may compromise their habitat value, and diminish differences in faunal communities across topographical gradients. We investigated the extent to which differences in avian communities persist when subjected to uniform fire severity and fire history across the gully and slope components of a forest site. We predicted that there would be less difference with increasing fire severity or long absence of fire. Birds were surveyed at 91 paired gully/slope sites in foothill eucalypt forests, two to three years after a large, severe wildfire in southeastern Australia. Sites were stratified in relation to four levels of fire severity (unburnt through to crown burnt) and two levels of fire history prior to the wildfire (burnt < 3 years, or > 20 years). Under similar conditions of fire severity and fire history, gullies maintained greater species richness and abundance than did slopes; averaging 13% greater species richness and 32% greater abundance, along with a distinct bird assemblage. However, contrary to predictions, topographical differences for most avian responses did not diminish with increasing fire severity or in the long absence of fire prior to the wildfire. This study highlights the value of forest gullies in maintaining or facilitating the recovery of distinct avian communities after wildfire, even when the gullies themselves have been burnt. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Robinson, NM; Leonard, SWJ; Bennett, AF; Clarke, MF] La Trobe Univ, Dept Ecol Environm & Evolut, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia; [Bennett, AF] Deakin Univ, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia; [Bennett, AF] Arthur Rylah Inst Environm Res, Heidelberg, Vic 3084, Australia	Robinson, NM (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Conservat & Landscape Ecol Grp, 141 Linnaeus Way, Acton, ACT 2601, Australia.	natasha.robinson@anu.edu.au; s.leonard@latrobe.edu.au; a.bennett@latrobe.edu.au; m.clarke@latrobe.edu.au		Robinson, Natasha/0000-0003-0421-8683	0	27	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2016	AUG	200					1	7	7		DT2QK	CCC:000381325300001					2019-04-10J	Aben, JBocedi, GPalmer, SCFPellikka, PStrubbe, DHallmann, CTravis, JMJLens, LMatthysen, E	Aben, Job; Bocedi, Greta; Palmer, Stephen C. F.; Pellikka, Petri; Strubbe, Diederik; Hallmann, Caspar; Travis, Justin M. J.; Lens, Luc; Matthysen, Erik		The importance of realistic dispersal models in conservation planning: application of a novel modelling platform to evaluate management scenarios in an Afrotropical biodiversity hotspot	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	connectivity, conservation planning, demography, dispersal, Eastern Arc Mountains, fragmentation, habitat network, Phyllastrephus cabanisi, RangeShifter, SEPM	UNDERSTORY BIRD COMMUNITY, FRAGMENTED LANDSCAPES, CLIMATE-CHANGE, MOVEMENT BEHAVIOR, STEPPING STONES, RANGE EXPANSION, HABITAT, CONNECTIVITY, POPULATION, FOREST	As biodiversity hotspots are often characterized by high human population densities, implementation of conservation management practices that focus only on the protection and enlargement of pristine habitats is potentially unrealistic. An alternative approach to curb species extinction risk involves improving connectivity among existing habitat patches. However, evaluation of spatially explicit management strategies is challenging, as predictive models must account for the process of dispersal, which is difficult in terms of both empirical data collection and modelling. Here, we use a novel, individual-based modelling platform that couples demographic and mechanistic dispersal models to evaluate the effectiveness of realistic management scenarios tailored to conserve forest birds in a highly fragmented biodiversity hotspot. Scenario performance is evaluated based on the spatial population dynamics of a well-studied forest bird species. The largest population increase was predicted to occur under scenarios increasing habitat area. However, the effectiveness was sensitive to spatial planning. Compared to adding one large patch to the habitat network, adding several small patches yielded mixed benefits: although overall population sizes increased, specific newly created patches acted as dispersal sinks, which compromised population persistence in some existing patches. Increasing matrix connectivity by the creation of stepping stones is likely to result in enhanced dispersal success and occupancy of smaller patches.Synthesis and applications. We show that the effectiveness of spatial management is strongly driven by patterns of individual dispersal across landscapes. For species conservation planning, we advocate the use of models that incorporate adequate realism in demography and, particularly, in dispersal behaviours.	[Aben, J; Bocedi, G; Palmer, SCF; Travis, JMJ] Univ Aberdeen, Inst Biol & Environm Sci, Zoology Bldg,Tillydrone Ave, Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, Scotland; [Aben, J; Strubbe, D; Matthysen, E] Univ Antwerp, Evolutionary Ecol Grp, Dept Biol, Groenenborgerlaan 171, B-2020 Antwerp, Belgium; [Pellikka, P] Univ Helsinki, Dept Geosci & Geog, POB 64, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Hallmann, C] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Inst Water & Wetland Res, Dept Expt Plant Ecol, POB 9010, NL-6500 GL Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Lens, L] Univ Ghent, Terr Ecol Unit, Dept Biol, KL Ledeganckstr 35, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium	Aben, J (reprint author), Univ Aberdeen, Inst Biol & Environm Sci, Zoology Bldg,Tillydrone Ave, Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, Scotland.; Aben, J (reprint author), Univ Antwerp, Evolutionary Ecol Grp, Dept Biol, Groenenborgerlaan 171, B-2020 Antwerp, Belgium.	job.aben@gmail.com	Strubbe, Diederik/J-4299-2015; Aben, Job/	Strubbe, Diederik/0000-0002-2613-4985; Aben, Job/0000-0002-9906-7410	1	52	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2016	AUG	53	4				1055	1065	11		DR7FO	CCC:000380065600010	27708456	Green Published			2019-04-10J	Thom, DSeidl, R	Thom, Dominik; Seidl, Rupert		Natural disturbance impacts on ecosystem services and biodiversity in temperate and boreal forests	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Life Sciences (LS)	BIOLOGY, EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	fire, wind, bark beetles, disturbance effect, biodiversity, ecosystem services, forest management, salvage logging, prescribed burning, disturbance paradox	MOUNTAIN PINE-BEETLE, PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, SOUTH-WESTERN AUSTRALIA, EUCALYPTUS-MARGINATA FOREST, SMALL-MAMMAL COMMUNITIES, STAND-REPLACING FIRE, COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, SUB-ALPINE FORESTS, CAPERCAILLIE TETRAO-UROGALLUS, OCCIDENTALIS CAURINA HABITAT	In many parts of the world forest disturbance regimes have intensified recently, and future climatic changes are expected to amplify this development further in the coming decades. These changes are increasingly challenging the main objectives of forest ecosystem management, which are to provide ecosystem services sustainably to society and maintain the biological diversity of forests. Yet a comprehensive understanding of how disturbances affect these primary goals of ecosystem management is still lacking. We conducted a global literature review on the impact of three of the most important disturbance agents (fire, wind, and bark beetles) on 13 different ecosystem services and three indicators of biodiversity in forests of the boreal, cool- and warm-temperate biomes. Our objectives were to (i) synthesize the effect of natural disturbances on a wide range of possible objectives of forest management, and (ii) investigate standardized effect sizes of disturbance for selected indicators via a quantitative meta-analysis. We screened a total of 1958 disturbance studies published between 1981 and 2013, and reviewed 478 in detail. We first investigated the overall effect of disturbances on individual ecosystem services and indicators of biodiversity by means of independence tests, and subsequently examined the effect size of disturbances on indicators of carbon storage and biodiversity by means of regression analysis. Additionally, we investigated the effect of commonly used approaches of disturbance management, i.e. salvage logging and prescribed burning. We found that disturbance impacts on ecosystem services are generally negative, an effect that was supported for all categories of ecosystem services, i.e. supporting, provisioning, regulating, and cultural services (P < 0.001). Indicators of biodiversity, i.e. species richness, habitat quality and diversity indices, on the other hand were found to be influenced positively by disturbance (P < 0.001). Our analyses thus reveal a disturbance paradox', documenting that disturbances can put ecosystem services at risk while simultaneously facilitating biodiversity. A detailed investigation of disturbance effect sizes on carbon storage and biodiversity further underlined these divergent effects of disturbance. While a disturbance event on average causes a decrease in total ecosystem carbon by 38.5% (standardized coefficient for stand-replacing disturbance), it on average increases overall species richness by 35.6%. Disturbance-management approaches such as salvage logging and prescribed burning were neither found significantly to mitigate negative effects on ecosystem services nor to enhance positive effects on biodiversity, and thus were not found to alleviate the disturbance paradox. Considering that climate change is expected to intensify natural disturbance regimes, our results indicate that biodiversity will generally benefit from such changes while a sustainable provisioning of ecosystem services might come increasingly under pressure. This underlines that disturbance risk and resilience require increased attention in ecosystem management in the future, and that new approaches to addressing the disturbance paradox in management are needed.	[Thom, D; Seidl, R] Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci BOKU Vienna, Dept Forest & Soil Sci, Inst Silviculture, Peter Jordan Str 82, A-1190 Vienna, Austria	Thom, D (reprint author), Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci BOKU Vienna, Dept Forest & Soil Sci, Inst Silviculture, Peter Jordan Str 82, A-1190 Vienna, Austria.	dominik.thom@boku.ac.at		Seidl, Rupert/0000-0002-3338-3402; Thom, Dominik/0000-0001-8091-6075	43	375	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1464-7931		BIOL REV	Biol. Rev.	2016	AUG	91	3				760	781	22		DR5ER	CCC:000379926500009	26010526	Green Published, Green Accepted			2019-04-10J	Kelt, DAMeserve, PL	Kelt, Douglas A.; Meserve, Peter L.		To what extent can and should revegetation serve as restoration?	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Atriplex, desertification, invasive species, plant introductions, small mammals	JORGE NATIONAL-PARK, NORTH-CENTRAL CHILE, ATRIPLEX-NUMMULARIA, UNITED-STATES, PLANT INVASIONS, DESERT, INTRODUCTIONS, COMMUNITIES, VARIABILITY, VEGETATION	Desertification and climate change are degrading large areas of arid and semiarid habitat in many regions. In response, many countries have implemented revegetation programs, commonly using Atriplex nummularia, native to Australia. Although not intrinsically targeted at habitat restoration, these programs aim to restore (stabilize) erosional processes and provide livestock forage (usually goats, sheep). Few investigators have assessed the utility of these novel habitats for native fauna. In a recent, extensive survey of small mammal communities in lands revegetated with A. nummularia in north-central Chile, we captured a single animal, the marsupial (Thylamys elegans). We also captured no birds in our live traps and saw numerous darkling beetles in traps. These striking results contrasted with data from a nearby ungrazed park with natural vegetation where 10 small mammal species are known with total abundances ranging from 15 to 80 animals in similar sampling efforts. These revegetated lands provide poor habitat for native mammals, and we argue that revegetation efforts should include proactive risk assessment and cost-benefit analyses in a structured decision-making framework. In addition, managers should target increased plant species diversity to support broader biological diversity in addition to the need to control erosion. Although our work has focused on revegetation with Atriplex, numerous other plant species have been intentionally introduced to arid lands, usually for economic reasons; many of these, like Atriplex, have unintended consequences for native biota.	[Kelt, DA] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Wildlife Fish & Conservat Biol, One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Meserve, PL] Univ Idaho, Dept Biol Sci, 875 Perimeter Dr,MS 3051, Moscow, ID 83844 USA	Kelt, DA (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, Dept Wildlife Fish & Conservat Biol, One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA.	dakelt@ucdavis.edu			3	29	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2016	JUL	24	4				441	448	8		DW5WZ	CCC:000383719700002					2019-04-10J	Thorn, SWerner, SABWohlfahrt, JBassler, CSeibold, SQuillfeldt, PMuller, J	Thorn, Simon; Werner, Sinja A. B.; Wohlfahrt, Juergen; Baessler, Claus; Seibold, Sebastian; Quillfeldt, Petra; Mueller, Joerg		Response of bird assemblages to windstorm and salvage logging - Insights from analyses of functional guild and indicator species	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Forest management, Biodiversity, Breeding season, Coniferous forests, Natural disturbance, Logging, Harvesting	CLIMATE-CHANGE, BOREAL FOREST, GREAT-LAKES, COMMUNITIES, WINDTHROW, FIRE, MANAGEMENT, WILDFIRE, ECOLOGY, EUROPE	Natural disturbances, such as fire, windstorms and insect outbreaks, are important drivers of biodiversity in forest ecosystems, but at the same time cause large economic losses. Among the natural disturbances in Europe, windstorms cause the highest economic loss. After such storms, damaged forest stands are commonly salvage logged to restore economic value. However, such interventions could affect species assemblages of various taxonomic groups, including breeding birds. Despite these potential effects, investigations of the impacts of post-storm logging are largely lacking. We thus investigated assemblages of breeding birds in 21 logged and 21 unlogged windstorm-disturbed forest plots and 18 undisturbed, control forest plots using fixed-radius point-stop counts three, five and seven years after a windstorm within the Bavarian Forest National Park as part of the European Long-Term Ecosystem Research Network. We recorded 2100 bird individuals of 55 bird species. Bird assemblages were predominantly altered by the consequences of the windstorm and affected only to a minor degree by subsequent logging of storm felled trees. Nevertheless, bird species richness was significantly reduced by post-storm logging within the first season. In general, the windstorm led to a shift in bird assemblage composition from typical forest species towards open- and shrub-land species. Assemblages of logged and unlogged disturbed plots consisted mainly of long-distance migrants and ground-foraging bird species, whereas assemblages of undisturbed control plots consisted of resident species that forage within vegetation. Both unlogged and logged storm-felled coniferous forest stands were inhabited by endangered or declining bird species, such as Water Pipit (Anthus spinoletta) on logged plots and Eurasian Redstart (Phoenicurus phoenicurus) on unlogged plots. Indicator species analyses suggested that species of unlogged storm disturbed plots depended on storm-created legacies, such as pits and snags, for foraging and nesting. Hence, we recommend reducing post-storm logging of these legacies to support species restricted to unlogged disturbed forest. To increase the diversity of breeding birds on the landscape scale, diverse logged and unlogged post-disturbance stands should be provided, which could be gained by a partial benign neglect strategy of storm disturbed forest stands. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Thorn, S; Bassler, C; Seibold, S; Muller, J] Bavarian Forest Natl Pk, Freyunger Str 2, D-94481 Grafenau, Germany; [Thorn, S; Seibold, S; Muller, J] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Ecol & Ecosyst Management, Hans Carl von Carlowitz Pl 2, D-85354 Freising Weihenstephan, Germany; [Werner, SAB; Quillfeldt, P] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Ammerlander Heerstr 114-118, D-26129 Oldenburg, Germany; [Wohlfahrt, J] Forstrevier Neumarkt 1,Kapuzinerstr 6 1-3, Neumarkt, Germany; [Quillfeldt, P] Justus Liebig Univ, AG Verhaltensokol & Okophysiol Tiere, Heinrich Buff Ring 38, D-35392 Giessen, Germany; [Werner, SAB] Ernst Moritz Arndt Univ Greifswald, Zool Inst & Museum, AG Vogelwarte Hiddensee, Soldmannstr 23, D-7489 Greifswald, Germany	Thorn, S (reprint author), Bavarian Forest Natl Pk, Freyunger Str 2, D-94481 Grafenau, Germany.	simon@thornonline.de; sinja.werner@gmx.de; juergen.wohlfarth@aelf-ne.bayern.de; claus.baessler@npv-bw.bayern.de; sebastian-seibold@gmx.de; Petra.Quilifeldt@bio.uni-giessen.de; Joerg.Mueller@npv-bw.bayern.de			2	28	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2016	JUN	65				SI	142	148	7		EC5FE	CCC:000388157700013					2019-04-10J	Saalfeld, DTSaalfeld, STConway, WCHartke, KM	Saalfeld, David T.; Saalfeld, Sarah T.; Conway, Warren C.; Hartke, Kevin M.		WINTERING GRASSLAND BIRD RESPONSES TO VEGETATION STRUCTURE, EXOTIC INVASIVE PLANT COMPOSITION, AND DISTURBANCE REGIME IN COASTAL PRAIRIES OF TEXAS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	density, exotic invasive plants, grassland birds, grazing, multiple covariate distance sampling, prescribed fire, upper Texas coast	PRESCRIBED FIRE, GREAT-PLAINS, CONSERVATION, ABUNDANCE, HABITAT, COMMUNITIES, MANAGEMENT, GRASSES, HETEROGENEITY, PATTERNS	Many migratory grassland passerines complete their annual life cycle within the United States and investigations into wintering ecology of these species are scarce, particularly in ecoregions where habitat quality is considered to be compromised, such as the coastal prairie of Texas. During 2008-2010, we investigated wintering grassland bird ecology as related to coastal prairie composition and management practices on the mid-upper Texas coast. To quantify grassland bird composition and density among management regimes, we performed 260 transect surveys on 40 different study site pastures deployed among 7 different management regimes, varying in plant community composition as well as frequency (or occurrence) of burning, grazing, and mowing from 29 October 2008-7 April 2009 and 17 November 2009-17 March 2010. A total of 79 bird species (48 species in 2008-2009 and 66 species in 2009-2010) were recorded during this study. Sites that were recently (<2 years prior) grazed, burned, or mowed tended to have the greatest species richness of obligate grassland bird species. Management regime and the resulting habitat characteristics also appeared to influence densities of Le Conte's Sparrow (Ammodramus leconteii), Sedge Wren (Cistothorus platensis), and Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii), with the former two species selecting areas that had not been recently burned, grazed, or mowed and were characterized by greater vertical vegetation density and litter depth, respectively. Conversely, Sprague's Pipit selected recently burned, grazed, or mowed prairies, characterized by less litter depth and percentage of shrubs nearby. More cosmopolitan species, such as Eastern Meadowlark (Sturnella magna) and Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) occurred equally among management regimes. Despite similar species richness in floristically disturbed sites, nonnative vegetation appeared to negatively influence species with specific habitat requirements such as Sprague's Pipit, Sedge Wren, and Le Conte's Sparrow. In order to increase wintering avian diversity, coastal prairie habitat conservation and management in Texas should focus on restoring management regimes (i.e., burning, mowing, and grazing) that create heterogeneous environments, while maintaining native vegetation communities.	[Saalfeld, DT; Saalfeld, ST; Conway, WC] Stephen F Austin State Univ, Arthur Temple Coll Forestry & Agr, POB 6109 SFA Stn, Nacogdoches, TX 75962 USA; [Hartke, KM] Texas Parks & Wildlife Dept, 915 Front St, Richmond, TX 77469 USA; [Saalfeld, DT] Alaska Dept Fish & Game, 333 Raspberry Rd, Anchorage, AK 99518 USA; [Saalfeld, ST] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Migratory Bird Management Div, 1011 East Tudor Rd,MS 201, Anchorage, AK 99503 USA; [Conway, WC] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Nat Resources Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Hartke, KM] Ducks Unltd Inc, 915 Front St, Richmond, TX 77469 USA	Saalfeld, DT (reprint author), Stephen F Austin State Univ, Arthur Temple Coll Forestry & Agr, POB 6109 SFA Stn, Nacogdoches, TX 75962 USA.; Saalfeld, DT (reprint author), Alaska Dept Fish & Game, 333 Raspberry Rd, Anchorage, AK 99518 USA.	dsaalfeld@gmail.com			4	36	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2016	JUN	128	2				290	305	16	10.1676/wils-128-02-290-305.1	DQ8GN	CCC:000379447200006					2019-04-10J	White, AMManley, PNTarbill, GLRichardson, TWRussell, RESafford, HDDobrowski, SZ	White, A. M.; Manley, P. N.; Tarbill, G. L.; Richardson, T. W.; Russell, R. E.; Safford, H. D.; Dobrowski, S. Z.		Avian community responses to post-fire forest structure: implications for fire management in mixed conifer forests	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	avian community, forest fires, salvage logging, fire severity, post-fire management, hierarchical modeling, biodiversity, forest management	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, WESTERN UNITED-STATES, PRESCRIBED FIRE, SPECIES RICHNESS, FUEL TREATMENTS, SIERRA-NEVADA, SEVERITY, WILDFIRE, CALIFORNIA, USA	Fire is a natural process and the dominant disturbance shaping plant and animal communities in many coniferous forests of the western US. Given that fire size and severity are predicted to increase in the future, it has become increasingly important to understand how wildlife responds to fire and post-fire management. The Angora Fire burned 1243 hectares of mixed conifer forest in South Lake Tahoe, California. We conducted avian point counts for the first 3 years following the fire in burned and unburned areas to investigate which habitat characteristics are most important for re-establishing or maintaining the native avian community in post-fire landscapes. We used a multi-species occurrence model to estimate how avian species are influenced by the density of live and dead trees and shrub cover. While accounting for variations in the detectability of species, our approach estimated the occurrence probabilities of all species detected including those that were rare or observed infrequently. Although all species encountered in this study were detected in burned areas, species-specific modeling results predicted that some species were strongly associated with specific post-fire conditions, such as a high density of dead trees, open-canopy conditions or high levels of shrub cover that occur at particular burn severities or at a particular time following fire. These results indicate that prescribed fire or managed wildfire which burns at low to moderate severity without at least some high-severity effects is both unlikely to result in the species assemblages that are unique to post-fire areas or to provide habitat for burn specialists. Additionally, the probability of occurrence for many species was associated with high levels of standing dead trees indicating that intensive post-fire harvest of these structures could negatively impact habitat of a considerable proportion of the avian community.	[White, AM; Manley, PN; Tarbill, GL] US Forest Serv, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, USDA, Davis, CA 95618 USA; [Tarbill, GL] Oak Ridge Inst Sci & Educ, Oak Ridge, TN USA; [Richardson, TW] Tahoe Inst Nat Sci, Incline Village, NV USA; [Russell, RE] USGS, Natl Wildlife Hlth Ctr, Madison, WI USA; [Safford, HD] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Reg, Vallejo, CA USA; [Safford, HD] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Environm Sci & Policy, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Dobrowski, SZ] Univ Montana, Coll Forestry & Conservat, Missoula, MT 59812 USA	White, AM (reprint author), US Forest Serv, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, USDA, Davis, CA 95618 USA.	angelawhite@fs.fed.us		Dobrowski, Solomon/0000-0003-2561-3850	2	49	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2016	JUN	19	3				256	264	9		DQ1CU	CCC:000378939500008					2019-04-10J	Tingley, MWWilkerson, RLHowell, CASiegel, RB	Tingley, Morgan W.; Wilkerson, Robert L.; Howell, Christine A.; Siegel, Rodney B.		An integrated occupancy and space-usemodel to predict abundance of imperfectly detected, territorial vertebrates	METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bayesian, Black-backed Woodpecker, density, home range, Picoides arcticus, population size, wildlife habitat model	BLACK-BACKED WOODPECKERS, HOME-RANGE SIZE, HABITAT, MODELS, DENSITY, POPULATIONS, HUMMINGBIRDS, COMPETITION, TELEMETRY, DYNAMICS	1. It is often highly desirable to know not only where species are likely to occur (i.e. occupancy) but also how many individuals are supported by a given habitat (i.e. density). For many animals, occupancy and density may be determined by distinct ecological processes.2. Here we develop a novel abundance model as the product of landscape-scale occupancy probability and habitat-scale density given occupancy. One can conceptualize our model as fully packing a landscape with home ranges or territories based on habitat quality, and then subtracting territories based on a probabilistic process that accounts for the fact that species rarely exhibit full occupancy across heterogeneous landscapes. The model is designed to predict abundance at fine spatial scales, using resolutions equal to or smaller than a single home range or territory.3. We demonstrate this model on the Black-backed Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus), a species of management concern linked to post-fire forests. Occupancy is derived from a regional monitoring effort, while density given occupancy comes from a telemetry study of variation in territory size. A Bayesian framework is used to combine independent occupancy and home-range size models and predict abundance of Black-backed Woodpeckers at 4 fires that burned in 2012 or 2013. Predictions are evaluated with independently collected survey data, showing that the model is successful at predicting both absolute abundance at fires as well as relative abundance within and among fires.4. The conceptual model presents a promising new framework for fine-scale modelling of density and abundance for other territorial yet elusive species. Telemetry and occupancy data are widely collected for many species, but rarely utilized in combination, and the ecological exploration of the factors that determine occurrence versus home-range size may provide useful biological insight. As applied to the Black-backed Woodpecker, the model provides a tool for resource managers to explore trade-offs in retaining burned forest habitat versus managing for other post-fire goals, such as salvage logging or reforestation efforts that require snag removal.	[Tingley, MW] Univ Connecticut, Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 75 N Eagleville Rd,Unit 3043, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Tingley, MW; Wilkerson, RL; Siegel, RB] Inst Bird Populat, POB 1346, Point Reyes Stn, CA 94956 USA; [Howell, CA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Reg, 1323 Club Dr, Vallejo, CA 94592 USA	Tingley, MW (reprint author), Univ Connecticut, Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 75 N Eagleville Rd,Unit 3043, Storrs, CT 06269 USA.; Tingley, MW (reprint author), Inst Bird Populat, POB 1346, Point Reyes Stn, CA 94956 USA.	morgan.tingley@uconn.edu		Tingley, Morgan/0000-0002-1477-2218	1	28	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2041-210X		METHODS ECOL EVOL	Methods Ecol. Evol.	2016	MAY	7	5				508	517	10		DP8FC	CCC:000378732500001		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Latif, QSSanderlin, JSSaab, VABlock, WMDudley, JG	Latif, Quresh S.; Sanderlin, Jamie S.; Saab, Victoria A.; Block, William M.; Dudley, Jonathan G.		Avian relationships with wildfire at two dry forest locations with different historical fire regimes	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Arizona, burn severity, disturbance, dry conifer forests, fire regimes, forest bird communities, habitat management, Idaho, multispecies occupancy models, population responses, species richness, wildfire	PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, MIXED-CONIFER FORESTS, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, DISTURBANCE REGIMES, DOMINATED FORESTS, SPECIES RICHNESS, CLIMATE-CHANGE, BURN SEVERITY, POINT COUNTS, COMMUNITIES	Wildfire is a key factor influencing bird community composition in western North American forests. We need to understand species and community responses to wildfire and how responses vary regionally to effectively manage dry conifer forests for maintaining biodiversity. We compared avian relationships with wildfire burn severity between two dry forest locations of Arizona and Idaho. We predicted different responses to wildfire between locations due to regional differences in historical fire regime. We conducted point count surveys for 3 yr following wildfire (Arizona: 1997-1999; Idaho: 2008-2010) and used multispecies hierarchical models to analyze relationships of bird occupancy with burn severity. Consistent with our prediction for mixed-severity fire regimes characterizing the Idaho location, we observed proportionately more positive species occupancy relationships and, consequently, a positive species richness relationship with burn severity in Idaho. We also observed the opposite pattern in Arizona, which was congruent with our prediction for the low-severity fire regime characterizing that location. Cavity nesters and aerial insectivores occupied more severely burned sites following wildfire, corresponding with predicted increases in nesting substrate and foraging opportunities for these species. In contrast, canopy-nesting foliage gleaners and pine seed consumers exhibited negative relationships with burn severity. Our results were consistent with predictions based on species life histories and with patterns from the literature, suggesting generality of observed relationships and locational difference in relationships with wildfire. We therefore suggest that optimal management strategies for maintaining avian diversity could differ regionally. Specifically, intensive fuels management may be ecologically less appropriate for promoting biodiversity in areas such as the Idaho location where mixed-severity wildfires and dense forest stands were historically more common.	[Latif, QS; Saab, VA] US Forest Serv, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Sanderlin, JS; Block, WM] US Forest Serv, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Flagstaff, AZ 86001 USA; [Dudley, JG] US Forest Serv, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Boise, ID 83702 USA	Latif, QS (reprint author), US Forest Serv, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA.	qlatif@fs.fed.us			3	30	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2016	MAY	7	5				NIL_628	NIL_649	22		DN6VS	CCC:000377215200039		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Thompson, IDWiebe, PKirk, DA	Thompson, Ian D.; Wiebe, Philip; Kirk, David A.		Resident and cavity-nesting avian community is affected by amount but not age of white pine in central Ontario mature mixedwood forests	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	old growth, cavity nesters, resident birds, white pine, selection harvesting	BLACK-CAPPED CHICKADEES, EASTERN BOREAL FOREST, FORAGING ECOLOGY, PILEATED WOODPECKERS, 3-TOED WOODPECKERS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, SITE LIMITATION, BROWN CREEPERS, DEAD WOOD, DENSITY	Forests with old-growth white pines have been severely reduced compared with historical levels. We examined resident and cavity-nesting bird species abundances in winter and the breeding season, because some of these species may prefer old-forest habitats for breeding. We counted birds over 10 years in four mixedwood types: old pine, mature pine, mature nonpine, and selection-harvested stands. We expected that old pine stands would be selected by some species because of abundant snags and large trees for foraging. We assessed habitat use among years and changes following harvesting. Counts of nomadic species varied across years but counts for others did not. Species used old and mature pine mixedwoods equally and more than nonpine or harvested stands in winter and for breeding, but old stands were not preferred. Important variables included percent pine and large tree density. Selection harvesting benefitted Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers but reduced counts of Black-capped Chickadees and Brown Creepers. Black-capped Chickadees changed habitats between seasons and in some years. Black-backed Woodpeckers were most common in pine stands but abundant in harvested stands for 2 years following cutting. Regardless of stand age, large (>40 cm) pines provide important habitat for residents and cavity nesters.	[Thompson, ID; Wiebe, P] Canadian Forest Serv, 1219 Queen St East, Sault Ste Marie, ON P6A 2E5, Canada; [Kirk, DA] Aquila Conservat & Environm Consulting, 75 Albert St,Suite 300, Ottawa, ON K1P 5E7, Canada	Thompson, ID (reprint author), Canadian Forest Serv, 1219 Queen St East, Sault Ste Marie, ON P6A 2E5, Canada.	ian.thompson@canada.ca			1	21	CANADIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING, NRC RESEARCH PRESS	OTTAWA	65 AURIGA DR, SUITE 203, OTTAWA, ON K2E 7W6, CANADA	http://www.nrcresearchpress.com	0045-5067		CAN J FOREST RES	Can. J. For. Res.	2016	MAY	46	5				725	737	13		DL9EX	CCC:000375945700014		Green Accepted			2019-04-10J	Assandri, GBogliani, GPedrini, PBrambilla, M	Assandri, Giacomo; Bogliani, Giuseppe; Pedrini, Paolo; Brambilla, Mattia		Diversity in the monotony? Habitat traits and management practices shape avian communities in intensive vineyards	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	CAP, Greening, Landscape, Organic, Trentino, Viticulture	OLIVE GROVES, BIRD COMMUNITIES, LAND-USE, BIODIVERSITY, LANDSCAPE, FARMLAND, CONSERVATION, METAANALYSIS, AGRICULTURE, AGROECOSYSTEMS	Spreading of viticulture may pose serious threats to biodiversity and adequate policies targeted at decreasing its impact are urgently required. Current knowledge of viticulture effects on biodiversity is scarce and studies on bird communities in vineyards are even scarcer.We surveyed avian assemblages in Trentino vineyards (North-East Italy) in both breeding and wintering seasons to evaluate the effect of: i) landscape, ii) management and iii) topographic-climatic characteristics on birds and to derive implications for conservation. We calculated four community indexes (species richness, abundance, evenness and conservation index) and modelled their relative variation according to 18 environmental variables belonging to the three above-mentioned groups.Landscape models performed better than the others, except for winter evenness, for which management models were the most supported ones. Generally, models considering the three groups together explained more variation than models from an individual group.Landscape (and agricultural) heterogeneity, extent of marginal habitats, density of traditional elements (hedgerows, tree rows, isolated trees and rural buildings) all had positive effects, whereas vineyard cover had negative impact on the value of the four community indexes.Organic management had no apparent effect on avian communities. We detected a seasonal difference in the effects of environmental characteristics on bird communities, which suggested that local conservation efforts could be tuned according to the seasonal importance of vineyards in different regions.Key measures to promote biodiversity in vineyards include maintaining patches of residual habitats in the vineyard matrix and enhancing heterogeneity. Marginal features appeared particularly important in the homogeneous landscape of intensive vineyards to favour bird communities. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Assandri, G; Bogliani, G] Univ Pavia, Dept Earth & Environm Sci, Via Adolfo Ferrata 9, I-27100 Pavia, Italy; [Assandri, G; Pedrini, P; Brambilla, M] MUSE, Sez Zool Vertebrati, Corso Sci & Lavoro 3, I-38123 Trento, Italy; [Brambilla, M] Fdn Lombardia Ambiente, Settore Biodiversita & Aree Protette, Largo 10 Luglio 1976 1, I-20822 Seveso, MB, Italy	Assandri, G (reprint author), Univ Pavia, Dept Earth & Environm Sci, Via Adolfo Ferrata 9, I-27100 Pavia, Italy.	giacomo.assandri@gmail.com; giuseppe.bogliani@unipv.it; paolo.pedrini@muse.it; brambilla.mattia@gmail.com		Assandri, Giacomo/0000-0001-5161-5353; Bogliani, Giuseppe/0000-0001-9066-6540; Brambilla, Mattia/0000-0002-7643-4652	3	38	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2016	MAY	223					250	260	11		DL0QK	CCC:000375337400026					2019-04-10J	Larsen, ALJacquot, JJKeenlance, PWKeough, HL	Larsen, Angela L.; Jacquot, Joseph J.; Keenlance, Paul W.; Keough, Heather L.		Effects of an ongoing oak savanna restoration on small mammals in Lower Michigan	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Small mammals, Thinning, Oak savanna, Quercus spp., Habitat restoration, Michigan	COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, SEED DISPERSAL, PINE FOREST, OLD FIELDS, FIRE, GRASSLAND, RESPONSES, POPULATIONS, RODENTS	Oak (Quercus spp.) savannas have declined drastically in the midwestern United States since European settlement. Oak savanna restoration projects are primarily driven by species closely linked to this habitat type, such as the federally endangered Karner blue butterfly (Lycaeides melissa samuelis). However, it is essential that other species are monitored during restoration. Small mammals, due to their importance in ecosystem function, are particularly useful to study. The United States Forest Service is currently conducting an oak savanna restoration in the Manistee National Forest in Lower Michigan using forest thinning and prescribed burning. To understand management impacts on small mammal communities, we live trapped small mammals in each of the mechanically thinned plots (i.e., bulldozer, masticator, and shear cutter) and control plots in five blocks over six years (2008-2013), as well as measured vegetation variables each year. Initially, we used a permutation multivariate analysis of variance (perMANOVA) to determine if there were treatment and year interactions for both small mammal community assemblages and vegetation variables. We then compared changes in small mammal diversity, relative abundance, and vegetation variables among treatments using exploratory randomized block design analysis of variances (ANOVAs). Canopy cover was significantly lower in bulldozer and shear cutter thinned plots than control plots five years following thinning. We observed significant treatment by year interactions in how the small mammal community responded. A large increase in relative abundance of white-footed mice occurred one year post-thinning in all treatments. Within 1-2 years of treatment, thirteen-lined ground squirrels and meadow jumping mice, both open-canopy grassland species became established on thinned plots. The retention of brush piles in bulldozer and shear cutter plots provided important refuge habitat for small mammals following thinning, Restoration efforts were beneficial to the small mammal community overall and promoted grassland species to immigrate into the restored area. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Larsen, AL; Jacquot, JJ; Keenlance, PW] Grand Valley State Univ, Dept Biol, 1 Campus Dr,3300a Kindschi Hall Sci, Allendale, MI 49401 USA; [Keough, HL] US Forest Serv, Huron Manistee Natl Forests, 605 N Michigan Ave, Baldwin, MI 49304 USA; [Larsen, AL] Univ N Carolina, Dept Biol, 312 Eberhart Bldg, Greensboro, NC 27402 USA	Larsen, AL (reprint author), Grand Valley State Univ, Dept Biol, 1 Campus Dr,3300a Kindschi Hall Sci, Allendale, MI 49401 USA.; Larsen, AL (reprint author), Univ N Carolina, Dept Biol, 312 Eberhart Bldg, Greensboro, NC 27402 USA.	allarsen@uncg.edu		Larsen, Angela/0000-0002-7222-4201	7	59	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2016	MAY	367					120	127	8		DK8EZ	CCC:000375161300013					2019-04-10J	McKellar, AEKesler, DCWalters, JR	McKellar, A. E.; Kesler, D. C.; Walters, J. R.		Resource selection reflects fitness associations for an endangered bird in restored habitat	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	conservation actions, ecosystem restoration, fitness, Picoides borealis, red-cockaded woodpecker, resource selection, umbrella species	RED-COCKADED WOODPECKERS, GENERALIZED ESTIMATING EQUATIONS, PINE-GRASSLAND RESTORATION, HARDWOOD REDUCTION, FORAGING HABITAT, NORTHWEST FLORIDA, BREEDING BIRD, ECOSYSTEM, MODELS, DEER	Conservation practitioners frequently have limited information on the structure and function of the ecosystems they wish to preserve, and as a result, they may use shortcuts to guide conservation actions. One such shortcut is the umbrella species approach, whereby conservation actions are geared toward one or a few key species, with the assumption that the entire community will benefit. However, fitness-habitat associations and resource use may vary across space and across management regimes, and so too may the utility of umbrella species as ecosystem surrogates. The federally endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) has been used as an umbrella species in the restoration of the longleaf pine ecosystem of the southeastern US. Restoration efforts were based on early habitat selection information in largely degraded landscapes. We examined patterns of resource selection of 97 social groups of red-cockaded woodpeckers in a restored landscape in northwest Florida. Similar to previous studies in degraded landscapes, woodpecker groups selected forest stands containing higher densities of large pines and lower densities of small pines for foraging. However, we found no evidence for another aspect of habitat selection widely documented in degraded habitat, the avoidance of areas with substantial components of hardwoods. These results align with new woodpecker fitness-habitat associations within restored landscapes and lend support to previous findings that current ecosystem restoration efforts in the study area, namely prescribed burning, may have reduced hardwood densities to below those at which they have negative impacts. The red-cockaded woodpecker has served as an effective umbrella species in degraded longleaf ecosystems by promoting management, especially prescribed burning, that benefits many other species. Whether it will continue to do so in restored habitat is not yet clear, but its tolerance of a range of hardwood conditions provides reason for optimism.	[McKellar, AE; Kesler, DC] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO USA; [Walters, JR] Virginia Tech, Dept Biol Sci, Blacksburg, VA USA; [McKellar, AE] Environm Canada, 115 Perimeter Rd, Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X4, Canada	McKellar, AE (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO USA.; McKellar, AE (reprint author), Environm Canada, 115 Perimeter Rd, Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X4, Canada.	ann.mckellar@ec.gc.ca			2	36	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2016	APR	19	2				131	138	8		DJ9WL	CCC:000374563900008					2019-04-10J	Felton, AHedwall, POLindbladh, MNyberg, TFelton, AMHolmstrom, EWallin, ILof, MBrunet, J	Felton, A.; Hedwall, P. O.; Lindbladh, M.; Nyberg, T.; Felton, A. M.; Holmstrom, E.; Wallin, I.; Lof, M.; Brunet, J.		The biodiversity contribution of wood plantations: Contrasting the bird communities of Sweden's protected and production oak forests	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird assemblage, Forest management, Feeding guild, Nesting guild, Migrant, Silviculture	SOUTHERN SWEDEN, NEST PREDATION, SAPROXYLIC BEETLES, SPECIES RICHNESS, NORTHERN EUROPE, TREE-RETENTION, DEAD WOOD, HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, SPRUCE MONOCULTURES, HAZEL WOODLAND	The oak-dominated woodlands and forests of northern Europe have experienced dramatic declines due to agriculture, urbanization, and conifer-dominated production forestry. These losses have had a substantial negative impact on biodiversity due to the large number of forest species which depend on oak and the environments oak-dominated forests provide. Production oak stands may serve as a means of supplementing or complementing the habitat provided by the limited remaining natural oak remnants in this region. Here we evaluate the extent to which oak plantations in temperate southern Sweden provide habitat and resources for bird communities, by surveying and contrasting the bird species composition and diversity found in mature and young production oak stands (5 and 8 replicates respectively) and protected oak-dominated remnant forests (5 replicates). The mature production stands possessed a bird community partially overlapping in bird species composition, and comparable in species richness (34 species) to that found within protected oak forests (39 species). Furthermore, the production oak forests surveyed hosted threatened or near threatened bird species, including black woodpecker (Dryocopus martius), goldcrest (Regulus regulus), starling (Sturnus vulgaris), and yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella). Though production oak forests cannot replace the habitat provided by protected oak forests, these stands do appear to provide conditions consistent with the habitat and resource requirements of a diverse cross-section of bird species in this region, including species of substantial conservation concern. Production oak forests thus have the capacity to make a positive contribution to biodiversity conservation, as well as providing a diverse range of goods and services to society. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Felton, A; Hedwall, PO; Lindbladh, M; Felton, AM; Holmstrom, E; Wallin, I; Lof, M; Brunet, J] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Southern Swedish Forest Res Ctr, Box 49,Rorsjov 1, S-23053 Alnarp, Sweden; [Nyberg, T] Seven Continents, Davidshallsgatan 25A, S-21145 Malmo, Sweden	Felton, A (reprint author), Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Southern Swedish Forest Res Ctr, Box 49,Rorsjov 1, S-23053 Alnarp, Sweden.	adam.felton@slu.se	Holmstrom, Emma/E-8419-2017; Wallin, Ida/; Hedwall, Per-Ola/	Holmstrom, Emma/0000-0003-2025-1942; Wallin, Ida/0000-0003-2735-0409; Hedwall, Per-Ola/0000-0002-0120-7420	2	68	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2016	APR	365					51	60	10		DF9AJ	CCC:000371652300005					2019-04-10J	Casas, AGarcia, MSiegel, RBKoltunov, ARamirez, CUstin, S	Casas, Angeles; Garcia, Mariano; Siegel, Rodney B.; Koltunov, Alexander; Ramirez, Carlos; Ustin, Susan		Burned forest characterization at single-tree level with airborne laser scanning for assessing wildlife habitat	REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences (PCES)	EARTH SCIENCES	Physical Sciences - Other Topics	Gaussian processes, Watershed segmentation, Single-tree level, Stem diameter, Basal area, Megafire, Wildlife habitat, Black-backed woodpecker, Airborne laser scanning, LiDAR, Snags, Dead trees, Rim fire	DISCRETE-RETURN LIDAR, AVIAN SPECIES RICHNESS, COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, WOODPECKER HABITAT, INDIVIDUAL TREES, SMALL-FOOTPRINT, BIRD, FIRE, INTENSITY, AREA	Abundance, size, and spatial distribution of standing dead trees (snags), are key indicators of forest biodiversity and ecosystem health. These metrics represent critical habitat components for various wildlife species of conservation concern, including the Black-backed Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus), which is strongly associated with recently burned conifer forest. We assessed the potential of Airborne Laser Scanning (ALS) to detect and characterize conifer snags and identify Black-backed Woodpecker habitat using previously derived empirical thresholds of conifer snag basal area. Over the footprint of the Rim Fire, a megafire that extended (similar to 104,000 ha) through a heterogeneous mosaic of conifer forests, oak woodlands, and meadows in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California, we identified conifer snags and estimated their basal area from single-tree ALS-derived metrics using Gaussian processes in four major steps. First, individual trees were mapped using the Watershed Segmentation algorithm, resulting in 87% detection of trees with stem diameter larger than 30 cm. Second, the snag/live classification model identified snags with an overall accuracy of 91.8%, using the coefficient of variation of height and intensity together with maximum intensity and fractional cover as the most relevant metrics. Third, the conifer/hardwood snag classification model utilizing the maximum height, median height, minimum intensity, and area metrics separated snag forest types with an overall accuracy of 84.8%. Finally, a Gaussian process regression model reliably estimated conifer snag stem diameter (R-2 = 0.81) using height and crown area, thus significantly outperforming regionally calibrated conifer-specific allometric equations. As a result,-80% of the snag basal area have been mapped. Optimal and potential habitat for Black-backed Woodpecker comprise 53.7 km(2) and 58.4 km(2), respectively, representing 5.1 and 5.6% of the footprint of the Rim Fire. Our study illustrates the utility of high-density ALS data for characterizing recently burned forests, which, in conjunction with information about the habitat needs of particular snag-dependent wildlife species, can be used to assess habitat characteristics, and thus contribute greatly to forest management and biodiversity conservation. (c) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	[Casas, A; Koltunov, A; Ustin, S] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Land Air & Water Resources, One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Garcia, M] Univ Leicester, Ctr Landscape & Climate Res, Univ Rd, Leicester LE1 7RH, Leics, England; [Garcia, M] CALTECH, Jet Prop Lab, 4800 Oak Grove Dr, Pasadena, CA 91109 USA; [Siegel, RB] Inst Bird Populat, Point Reyes Stn, CA USA; [Koltunov, A; Ramirez, C] US Forest Serv, USDA, Reg Remote Sensing Lab 5, Mcclellan, CA USA	Casas, A (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, Dept Land Air & Water Resources, One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA.		Garcia-Alonso, Mariano/J-9366-2016	Garcia-Alonso, Mariano/0000-0001-6260-5791	6	53	ELSEVIER SCIENCE INC	NEW YORK	360 PARK AVE SOUTH, NEW YORK, NY 10010-1710 USA	http://www.elsevier.com	0034-4257		REMOTE SENS ENVIRON	Remote Sens. Environ.	2016	MAR	175					231	241	11		DF0AC	CCC:000371000000020		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Lee, ATKBarnard, P	Lee, Alan T. K.; Barnard, Phoebe		Endemic birds of the Fynbos biome: a conservation assessment and impacts of climate change	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		PLANT DIVERSITY, RANGE SHIFTS, BIODIVERSITY, SOUTHERN, RENOSTERVELD	The South African Fynbos biome, a global biodiversity hotspot with high endemism and species richness, has six endemic bird species. These are important not only intrinsically, but also for ecological functioning and as flagships for South Africa's economically valuable avitourism sector. Little is known about population sizes or realised distribution ranges of these six species, but projected range modelling based on occurrence from the South African Bird Atlas Project (SABAP) has suggested these species are vulnerable to climate change. We estimate global population sizes for these six endemics based on densities calculated from two intensive biome-wide point count surveys in 2012. We modelled regions of suitable climatic space, from which we established that mean annual temperature and the temperature of the warmest quarter of the year appear to limit Cape Rock-jumper Chaetops frenatus and Protea Canary Serinus leucopterus ranges. Both species have seen an apparent > 30% decrease in range and reporting rates (a proxy for abundance) in the twenty years between SABAP atlas periods (1987-1991 and 2007-ongoing). The Cape Rock-jumper result is unexpected: encounter rates are higher in shorter vegetation, dry slopes and habitats with more recent occurrence of fire - all proxies for proximate causes of climate change on the Fynbos. Although coastal plains are highly transformed, mountain Fynbos is the best protected of all the world's Mediterranean-climate habitats, with relatively little anthropogenic land transformation. Long term weather datasets from the Fynbos demonstrate significant warming since 1960. We conclude from these lines of evidence that these decreases are consistent with the loss of suitable climate space and inability of these species to adjust physiologically to increasing temperatures.	[Lee, ATK] South African Natl Biodivers Inst, Climate Change Adaptat Div, Private Bag X7, ZA-7735 Claremont, South Africa; [Barnard, P] Univ Cape Town, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, Private Bag X3, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa	Lee, ATK (reprint author), South African Natl Biodivers Inst, Climate Change Adaptat Div, Private Bag X7, ZA-7735 Claremont, South Africa.	alan.tk.lee@googlemail.com		Lee, Alan Tristram Kenneth/0000-0002-5858-9351	1	28	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2016	MAR	26	1				52	68	17		DH1BO	CCC:000372519600004					2019-04-10J	Burgess, EEMaron, M	Burgess, Emma E.; Maron, Martine		Does the response of bird assemblages to fire mosaic properties vary among spatial scales and foraging guilds?	LANDSCAPE ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Central Queensland, Fire mosaics, Foraging guilds, Spatial heterogeneity, Spatial scale, Woodland birds	SPECIES-DIVERSITY, FUNCTIONAL-GROUPS, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, HABITAT HETEROGENEITY, FLORISTIC COMPOSITION, GAMMA DIVERSITY, ANT COMMUNITIES, BETA DIVERSITY, FOREST BIRDS, LANDSCAPE	Context An increasing number of studies have investigated the impact of environmental heterogeneity on faunal assemblages when measured at multiple spatial scales. Few studies, however, have considered how the effects of heterogeneity on fauna vary with the spatial scale at which the response variable is characterised.Objectives We investigated the relationship between landscape properties in a region characterised by diverse fire mosaics, and the structure and composition of avian assemblages measured at both the site-(1 ha) and landscape-scale (100 ha).Methods We surveyed birds and calculated spatial landscape properties in sub-tropical woodlands of central Queensland, Australia.Results Environmental heterogeneity, as measured by topographic complexity, was consistently important for bird species richness and composition. However, the explanatory power of topographic complexity varied depending on the spatial scale and the component of diversity under investigation. We found different correlates of richness within particular foraging guilds depending on the scale at which richness was measured. Extent of long-unburnt habitat ([ 10 years since fire) was the most important variable for the landscape-scale richness of frugivores, insectivores and canopy feeders, whereas environmental heterogeneity in the surrounding landscape was more important for site-scale richness of these foraging guilds.Conclusions The response of species richness to landscape characteristics varies among scales, and among components of diversity. Thus, depending on the scale at which a biodiversity conservation goal is conceptualised-maximising richness at a site, or across a landscape-different landscape management approaches may be preferred.	[Burgess, EE; Maron, M] Univ Queensland, Landscape Ecol & Conservat Grp, Sch Geog Planning & Environm Management, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia	Burgess, EE (reprint author), Univ Queensland, Landscape Ecol & Conservat Grp, Sch Geog Planning & Environm Management, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia.	e.burgess4@uq.edu.au; m.maron@uq.edu.au	Maron, Martine/D-9699-2011	Maron, Martine/0000-0002-5563-5789	0	30	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0921-2973		LANDSCAPE ECOL	Landsc. Ecol.	2016	MAR	31	3				687	699	13		DG8FW	CCC:000372319400015					2019-04-10J	Dias, DFCRibeiro, MCFelber, YTCintra, ALPde Souza, NSHasui, E	Dias, Davi F. C.; Ribeiro, Milton C.; Felber, Yan T.; Cintra, Ana L. P.; de Souza, Natalia S.; Hasui, Erica		Beauty before age: landscape factors influence bird functional diversity in naturally regenerating fragments, but regeneration age does not	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Atlantic Forest, bird, fauna recovery, fragmentation, functional group, natural regeneration, natural regrowth, passive restoration	HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, SPECIES RICHNESS, ATLANTIC FOREST, RAIN-FOREST, RESTORATION ECOLOGY, NORTHEAST INDIA, CONSERVATION, CONNECTIVITY, BIODIVERSITY, AREA	Effective ecological restoration actions should be able to recover ecosystem processes that influence community development in the long term. However, there is scarce information on how landscape factors promote or accelerate fauna recovery. We used a landscape framework to evaluate how functional groups respond to natural regeneration in a highly fragmented region of Atlantic Forest. Using bird functional groups sampled in 15 regenerating forest fragments, we built and ranked models using a model selection approach to test the relative effect of landscape variables on each group. Our results showed that bird community recovery is not determined by the duration of the regeneration process (i.e. forest age), but by how the species responds to the landscape context. Functional diversity and the abundance of the functional groups were mainly related to composition metrics, whereas the functional metric affected only specific groups. Our findings highlight the importance of considering the landscape level to ensure both the colonization of fauna and the restoration of ecological functions.	[Dias, DFC; Felber, YT; Cintra, ALP; de Souza, NS; Hasui, E] Fed Univ Alfenas UNIFAL MG, Inst Nat Sci, Lab Forest Fragment Ecol, Rua Gabriel Monteiro da Silva 700, BR-37130000 Alfenas, MG, Brazil; [Ribeiro, MC] Univ Estadual Paulista Julio de Mesquita, Inst Biosci, Spatial Ecol & Conservat Lab LEEC, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, Brazil	Hasui, E (reprint author), Fed Univ Alfenas UNIFAL MG, Inst Nat Sci, Lab Forest Fragment Ecol, Rua Gabriel Monteiro da Silva 700, BR-37130000 Alfenas, MG, Brazil.	ericahasui@yahoo.com			4	39	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2016	MAR	24	2				259	270	12		DG7SB	CCC:000372282900016					2019-04-10J	Rose, ETSimons, TR	Rose, Eli T.; Simons, Theodore R.		Avian response to fire in pine-oak forests of Great Smoky Mountains National Park following decades of fire suppression	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	fire suppression, differenced normalized burn ratio, fire severity, pine-oak forest, time since fire	UPLAND HARDWOOD FOREST, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, BREEDING BIRDS, NORTH-AMERICA, CONSERVATION, SEVERITY, ABUNDANCE, ECOLOGY, HISTORY, HETEROGENEITY	Fire suppression in southern Appalachian pine-oak forests during the past century dramatically altered the bird community. Fire return intervals decreased, resulting in local extirpation or population declines of many bird species adapted to post-fire plant communities. Within Great Smoky Mountains National Park, declines have been strongest for birds inhabiting xeric pine-oak forests that depend on frequent fire. The buildup of fuels after decades of fire suppression led to changes in the 1996 Great Smoky Mountains Fire Management Plan. Although fire return intervals remain well below historic levels, management changes have helped increase the amount of fire within the park over the past 20 years, providing an opportunity to study patterns of fire severity, time since burn, and bird occurrence. We combined avian point counts in burned and unburned areas with remote sensing indices of fire severity to infer temporal changes in bird occurrence for up to 28 years following fire. Using hierarchical linear models that account for the possibility of a species presence at a site when no individuals are detected, we developed occurrence models for 24 species: 13 occurred more frequently in burned areas, 2 occurred less frequently, and 9 showed no significant difference between burned and unburned areas. Within burned areas, the top models for each species included fire severity, time since burn, or both, suggesting that fire influenced patterns of species occurrence for all 24 species. Our findings suggest that no single fire management strategy will suit all species. To capture peak occupancy for the entire bird community within xeric pine-oak forests, at least 3 fire regimes may be necessary; one applying frequent low severity fire, another using infrequent low severity fire, and a third using infrequently applied high severity fire.	[Rose, ET] N Carolina State Univ, Dept Appl Ecol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Simons, TR] N Carolina State Univ, Dept Appl Ecol, US Geol Survey, North Carolina Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA	Rose, ET (reprint author), N Carolina State Univ, Dept Appl Ecol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA.	EliTRose2@gmail.com			2	28	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2016	FEB	118	1				179	193	15		DF8LN	CCC:000371609400012					2019-04-10J	Ceia, RSRamos, JA	Ceia, Ricardo S.; Ramos, Jaime A.		Birds as predators of cork and holm oak pests	AGROFORESTRY SYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AGRICULTURE/AGRONOMY	Agriculture	Biocontrol, Foraging guild, Insectivory, Mediterranean oak woodland, Quercus	THAUMETOPOEA-PITYOCAMPA POPULATION, LYMANTRIIDAE EGG MASSES, HOOPOE UPUPA-EPOPS, QUERCUS-SUBER, GRASSHOPPER POPULATIONS, MEDITERRANEAN REGION, SPATIAL-DISTRIBUTION, AVIAN PREDATION, PASSERINE BIRDS, PARUS-MAJOR	The recent decline of Mediterranean oak woodlands in SW Iberian Peninsula is related to insect pests which affect both cork oak (Quercus suber) and holm oak (Quercus rotundifolia). We identified twenty-six bird species as potential regular predators of twenty major pests by reviewing the diet of breeding, wintering and resident species in this ecosystem. Foraging guilds are strongly associated with predation at distinct stages of the pests' life-cycle: ground-foragers prey on overwintering pupae and larvae of seed-borers, tree-foragers prey on eggs, larvae and pupae of defoliating and wood-boring pests, and aerial-sweepers prey on airborne imagines. Bird predation can cover the complete life-cycle of pest species because different species may be complementary due to a dissimilar exploitation of foraging niches and periods. Small generalist tree-foraging passerines are important pest predators given their high densities and widespread distribution in Mediterranean oak woodlands, but management practices can have a significant negative effect in their populations.	[Ceia, RS; Ramos, JA] Univ Coimbra, Dept Life Sci, Marine & Environm Res Ctr IMAR CMA, P-3004517 Coimbra, Portugal; Univ Coimbra, MARE, Marine & Environm Sci Ctr, P-3004517 Coimbra, Portugal	Ceia, RS (reprint author), Univ Coimbra, Dept Life Sci, Marine & Environm Res Ctr IMAR CMA, P-3004517 Coimbra, Portugal.	ricardoceia@gmail.com	Ramos, Jaime/B-6616-2018	Ramos, Jaime/0000-0002-9533-987X	0	0	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0167-4366		AGROFOREST SYST	Agrofor. Syst.	2016	FEB	90	1			SI	159	176	18		DE5YV	CCC:000370710300013					2019-04-10J	Reside, AEVanderwal, JGarnett, STKutt, AS	Reside, April E.; Vanderwal, Jeremy; Garnett, Stephen T.; Kutt, Alex S.		Vulnerability of Australian tropical savanna birds to climate change	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	adaptive capacity, distribution modelling, resilience, sensitivity, threatened species	NORTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, VERTEBRATE FAUNA, GRANIVOROUS BIRDS, EXTINCTION RISK, BODY-SIZE, WOODLAND, FIRE, VEGETATION, ASSEMBLAGE, RESILIENCE	Assessments of species vulnerability to climate change should increase the effectiveness of interventions in the current decline in biodiversity. Species vulnerability to climate change is a consequence of their sensitivity and adaptive capacity, in combination with their exposure to climate change. We apply a vulnerability assessment framework to 243 bird species inhabiting the tropical savannas of northern Australia. We build on previous vulnerability studies by including detailed data for variables relating to species sensitivity to change (relative abundance, clutch size, sensitivity to fire and distribution area), species adaptive capacity (movement behaviour and dietary breadth) and proportional changes predicted for their geographic range (i.e. exposure to climate change). These are integrated to provide a ranking of vulnerability. Our analysis found that birds of Australian tropical savannas cluster together with high sensitivity, with a few wide-ranging increasing species with very low sensitivity. Australian tropical savanna birds have a range of adaptive capacities, and the impact of climate change on these species is predicted to be substantial. Two already endangered species are among the most vulnerable. Species largely restricted to Cape York Peninsula (a geographically distinct region) had the greatest overall vulnerability; these species were, in general, sensitive due to small distributions, sensitivity to fire frequency and had a lower capacity for dispersal. It will be important for the future of Australian tropical savanna birds to mitigate ecological threats and maintain extensive areas of suitable habitat to facilitate species dispersal.	[Reside, AE] CSIRO Climate Adaptat Flagship, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Reside, AE] James Cook Univ, Ecosyst Sci, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia; [Reside, AE; Vanderwal, J] James Cook Univ, Ctr Trop Biodivers & Climate Change, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia; [Vanderwal, J] James Cook Univ, eRes Ctr, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia; [Garnett, ST] Charles Darwin Univ, Sch Environm Res, Darwin, NT 0909, Australia; [Kutt, AS] Univ Melbourne, Sch Biosci, ARCUE, Carlton, Vic 3053, Australia	Reside, AE (reprint author), CSIRO Climate Adaptat Flagship, Townsville, Qld, Australia.	april.reside@gmail.com	Reside, April/H-4940-2011; James Cook University, TESS/B-8171-2012	Reside, April/0000-0002-0760-9527; 	4	68	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1442-9985		AUSTRAL ECOL	Austral Ecol.	2016	FEB	41	1				106	116	11		DA3US	CCC:000367725200011					2019-04-10J	Aebischer, NJBailey, CMGibbons, DWMorris, AJPeach, WJStoate, C	Aebischer, Nicholas J.; Bailey, Chris M.; Gibbons, David W.; Morris, Antony J.; Peach, Will J.; Stoate, Chris		Twenty years of local farmland bird conservation: the effects of management on avian abundance at two UK demonstration sites	BIRD STUDY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		BREEDING SUCCESS, POPULATION-DENSITY, HABITAT MANAGEMENT, NEST SUCCESS, PREDATION, BRITAIN, ENGLAND, WINTER, LANDSCAPE, TRENDS	Capsule At two demonstration farms, Game & Wildlife Conservation Trust's Loddington Farm in Leicestershire and Royal Society for the Protection of Birds's Hope Farm in Cambridgeshire, targeted management led to much faster increases in avian abundance than in the surrounding regions.Aims To compare changes in avian abundance at Loddington Farm since 1992 and Hope Farm since 2000, and relate these to regional trends in bird abundance and to the habitat and predator management conducted at the two sites.Methods Loddington Farm is a mixed arable 292-ha farm in a partially wooded landscape in Leicestershire. It was managed as a shoot from 1993 to 2002, combining habitat management with predator control (stopped in 2002) and winter grain provision (ceased in 2006). Hope Farm comprises a 181-ha mainly arable farm in an open landscape in Cambridgeshire, where habitat management for farmland birds has taken place since 2002. At both sites, breeding bird abundance has been monitored annually. Information on farm management was translated into three variables measuring annual provision of nesting cover, summer food and winter food. The number of Carrion Crow and Magpie territories was used as an index of predator abundance.Results Avian abundance increased at both farms much faster than within their respective regions. Recovery of priority species was positively correlated with the provision of summer foraging habitats and negatively correlated with the provision of supplementary grain during winter. The latter finding was counterintuitive and may reflect an increase in hedgerow provision that coincided with the cessation of grain provision at both farms. The increase in bird abundance was not sustained at Loddington Farm in the absence of predator control, although it was at Hope Farm where predator densities were markedly lower.Conclusion The data from Hope Farm suggest that where predator densities are relatively low (<3 Crow + Magpie pairs/km(2) locally, <0.2 Foxes/km(2) in spring regionally), recovery of farmland birds can be achieved through habitat management alone. Where predator densities are high (>5 corvid pairs/km(2) and >1.1 foxes/km(2)), as at Loddington Farm, species recovery, particularly of open-cup nesting species, may require predator control as well as habitat management. Further study is needed to confirm this tentative conclusion from only two sites.	[Aebischer, NJ; Stoate, C] Game & Wildlife Conservat Trust, Fordingbridge SP6 1EF, Hants, England; [Bailey, CM] RSPB Scotland, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh EH12 9DH, Midlothian, Scotland; [Gibbons, DW; Morris, AJ; Peach, WJ] RSPB, RSPB Ctr Conservat Sci, Sandy SG19 2DL, Beds, England	Aebischer, NJ (reprint author), Game & Wildlife Conservat Trust, Fordingbridge SP6 1EF, Hants, England.	naebischer@gwct.org.uk			5	54	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandfonline.com	0006-3657		BIRD STUDY	Bird Stud.	2016	JAN	63	1				10	30	21		DG4JU	CCC:000372039300002					2019-04-10J	Smith, PSmith, J	Smith, Peter; Smith, Judy		Influence of fire regime and other habitat factors on a eucalypt forest bird community in south-eastern Australia in the 1980s	AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bird species richness, climate change, fire frequency, fire severity, nectarivorous birds, time since fire	ARBOREAL MARSUPIAL FAUNA, WESTERN-AUSTRALIA, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, CENTRAL VICTORIA, CLIMATE-CHANGE, BELL MINERS, WALES, RICHNESS, ASSEMBLAGES	Weinvestigated bird habitat relationships in extensive eucalypt forest in the Blue Mountains, NewSouth Wales, in 1986-87, assessing the importance of fire regime variables compared with other habitat variables. Our study sites encompassed a wide range of postfire ages, fire frequencies and fire severity, but we found no major bird community differences corresponding to differences in fire regime. The more common forest bird species appeared well adapted to fire regime variation in the 1980s. Tree canopy height was a far greater influence, with more species and more birds in taller forests (interpreted as a result of higher soil fertility leading to higher productivity of bird foods and greater structural complexity in taller forests). Other trends were fewer birds where there was a rainforest understorey under the eucalypts (reflecting the general scarcity of rainforest birds in the Blue Mountains), and more birds where nectar-rich flowers were more abundant (reflecting the abundance of nectarivorous birds in the Blue Mountains, especially over winter). The climate has changed since the 1980s and fires threaten to become much more severe, extensive and frequent. How these changes will impact on forest birds, and what management responses are required, is a critical area for further study.	[Smith, P; Smith, J] P&J Smith Ecol Consultants, 44 Hawkins Parade, Blaxland, NSW 2774, Australia	Smith, P (reprint author), P&J Smith Ecol Consultants, 44 Hawkins Parade, Blaxland, NSW 2774, Australia.	smitheco@ozemail.com.au			3	4	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	0004-959X		AUST J ZOOL	Aust. J. Zool.	2016		64	5				312	326	15		EQ1LJ	CCC:000397831300002					2019-04-10J	Caprio, EChamberlain, DRolando, A	Caprio, Enrico; Chamberlain, Dan; Rolando, Antonio		Ski-piste revegetation promotes partial bird community recovery in the European Alps	BIRD STUDY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		SWISS ALPS, RUNS, VEGETATION, IMPACT, SNOW, MANAGEMENT, HABITAT, CLIMATE, RESORTS	Capsule: Restoration of grasslands on ski-pistes caused a recovery in the bird community, but not to the extent that it was equivalent to a natural Alpine grassland community.Aim: To test whether revegetation of ski-pistes in open habitat areas results in bird community recovery.Methods: The bird communities in two ski resorts in the Italian Maritime Alps were surveyed using a standardized area count method in three different plot types: non-restored ski-pistes (newly constructed), restored ski-pistes and control plots in grassland far from ski-pistes.Results: In 49 independent plots, 32 species were recorded. Species richness and abundance of birds were significantly higher on restored than on non-restored ski-pistes, independently of the species group considered and the analyses carried out. Bird community parameters of restored ski-pistes were still lower than those of natural grassland, as shown by results of typical grassland species.Conclusion: Our results suggest that an apparently successful restoration of ski-pistes may be not enough to promote a complete recovery of bird communities. The complete recovery of local bird communities may be promoted only if an integral recovery of the original vegetal communities is achieved. We suggest the best conservation option is to adopt techniques to maintain as far as possible original grassland if construction of new ski-pistes is unavoidable.	[Caprio, E; Chamberlain, D; Rolando, A] Univ Torino, Dipartimento Sci Vita & Biol Sistemi, Via Accademia Albertina 13, I-10123 Turin, Italy; [Caprio, E] Scuola Biodiversita Villa Paolina, Asti, Italy	Caprio, E (reprint author), Univ Torino, Dipartimento Sci Vita & Biol Sistemi, Via Accademia Albertina 13, I-10123 Turin, Italy.	enrico.caprio@gmail.com			1	9	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	2-4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OR14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandfonline.com	0006-3657		BIRD STUDY	Bird Stud.	2016		63	4				470	478	9		EB5XF	CCC:000387453300004					2019-04-10J	Hutto, RLPatterson, DA	Hutto, Richard L.; Patterson, David A.		Positive effects of fire on birds may appear only under narrow combinations of fire severity and time-since-fire	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF WILDLAND FIRE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Black-backed Woodpecker, conifer forest, ecological integrity, fire severity, mixed-severity fire, restoration, salvage logging, wildfire	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, BLACK-BACKED WOODPECKERS, STAND-REPLACEMENT FIRE, MIXED-CONIFER FORESTS, WESTERN UNITED-STATES, HOME-RANGE SIZE, BURNED FORESTS, MONTANE FORESTS, SIERRA-NEVADA, DRY FORESTS	We conducted bird surveys in 10 of the first 11 years following a mixed-severity fire in a dry, low-elevation mixed-conifer forest in western Montana, United States. By defining fire in terms of fire severity and time-since-fire, and then comparing detection rates for species inside 15 combinations of fire severity and time-since-fire, with their rates of detection in unburned (but otherwise similar) forest outside the burn perimeter, we were able to assess more nuanced effects of fire on 50 bird species. A majority of species (60%) was detected significantly more frequently inside than outside the burn. It is likely that the beneficial effects of fire for some species can be detected only under relatively narrow combinations of fire severity and time-since-fire. Because most species responded positively and uniquely to some combination of fire severity and time-since-fire, these results carry important management implications. Specifically, the variety of burned-forest conditions required by fire-dependent bird species cannot be created through the application of relatively uniform low-severity prescribed fires, through land management practices that serve to reduce fire severity or through post-fire salvage logging, which removes the dead trees required by most disturbance-dependent bird species.	[Hutto, RL] Univ Montana, Div Biol Sci, 32 Campus Dr 4824, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Patterson, DA] Univ Montana, Dept Math Sci, 32 Campus Dr 0864, Missoula, MT 59812 USA	Hutto, RL (reprint author), Univ Montana, Div Biol Sci, 32 Campus Dr 4824, Missoula, MT 59812 USA.	hutto@mso.umt.edu			8	22	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1049-8001		INT J WILDLAND FIRE	Int. J. Wildland Fire	2016		25	10				1074	1085	12		DZ5BE	CCC:000385875900005					2019-04-10J	de Gasperis, SRDe Zan, LRBattisti, CReichegger, ICarpaneto, GM	de Gasperis, Sarah Rossi; De Zan, Lara Redolfi; Battisti, Corrado; Reichegger, Ignaz; Carpaneto, Giuseppe M.		Distribution and abundance of hole-nesting birds in Mediterranean forests: impact of past management patterns on habitat preference	ORNIS FENNICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		WOODPECKER DENDROCOPOS-MEDIUS, SITE SELECTION, SPECIES RICHNESS, BEECH FORESTS, DEAD WOOD, BLUE TITS, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY, MIDDLE, FRAGMENTATION	This study explores the relative abundance of hole-nesting birds in four Mediterranean forest types, each of which has undergone different patterns of forest management. Nine species were sampled in 24 study plots, to compare cork oak forest, turkey oak forest, holm oak forest and pine plantation. The abundance of hole-nesters was greater in cork oak forest and turkey oak forest. Three species were most frequently detected: Great Tit (Parus major), Blue Tit (Cyanistes caeruleus) and Nuthatch (Sitta europaea). Bird abundance was significantly lower in holm oak forest, particularly in the cases of Great Spotted Woodpecker (Dendrocopos major), Green Woodpecker (Picus viridis), Nuthatch and Short-toed Treecreeper (Certhia brachydactyla). The Great Spotted Woodpecker showed a positive correlation with the abundance of three secondary cavity nesters: Nuthatch, Short-toed Treecreeper and Starling; in contrast, Green Woodpecker showed a negative correlation with Starling. Habitat structure varied significantly among forest types, especially the mean and maximum tree height, these being lower in holmoak forest. The Great Spotted Woodpecker proved to be a good indicator of less disturbed woodlands. In fact, maximum tree height turned out to be a significant and positive explanatory variable for woodpecker abundance. We consider that intensive coppicing and timber management in holm oak forest during the 20th century widely affected trees' age-profile, with consequences for their suitability for wood peckers and other hole-nesting birds. To monitor the response of hole-nesting birds to forest management in terms of abundance, we propose the use of the great spotted woodpecker as an indicator species.	[de Gasperis, SR; De Zan, LR; Carpaneto, GM] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dipartimento Sci, Viale Marconi 446, I-00146 Rome, Italy; [Battisti, C] Citta Metropolitana Roma, Torre Flavia LTER Stn, Serv Aree Protette Parchi Reg, Via Tiburtina 691, Rome, Italy; [Reichegger, I] UTB, Corpo Forestale Stato, Parco Nazl Circeo,Via Carlo Alberto 107, I-04016 Latina, Italy	de Gasperis, SR (reprint author), Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dipartimento Sci, Viale Marconi 446, I-00146 Rome, Italy.	sarah.rossidegasperis@uniroma3.it		Redolfi De Zan, Lara/0000-0002-2114-0016	1	19	BIRDLIFE FINLAND	HELSINKI	PO BOX 1285, HELSINKI, 00101, FINLAND	http://www.ornisfennica.org	0030-5685		ORNIS FENNICA	Ornis Fenn.	2016		93	2				100	110	11		DP8OO	CCC:000378757700003					2019-04-10J	Siegel, RBTingley, MWWilkerson, RLHowell, CAJohnson, MPyle, P	Siegel, Rodney B.; Tingley, Morgan W.; Wilkerson, Robert L.; Howell, Christine A.; Johnson, Matthew; Pyle, Peter		Age structure of Black-backed Woodpecker populations in burned forests	AUK			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Black-backed Woodpecker, Picoides arcticus, natal dispersal, breeding dispersal, population age structure, molt	NORTH-AMERICAN BIRDS, HOME-RANGE SIZE, BREEDING DISPERSAL, SITE FIDELITY, HABITAT ASSOCIATIONS, CONIFEROUS FORESTS, LONGEVITY RECORDS, SIERRA-NEVADA, PHILOPATRY, COMMUNITIES	Population age structure is important for understanding population dynamics, but can be difficult to resolve in landbirds due to the limited number of age classes discernible by examining plumage. In forests of western North America, Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides articus) typically colonize burned areas shortly after fire, but densities decline within 6-10 yr. This pattern is often assumed to result from adult Black-backed Woodpeckers abandoning territories when food resources wane, yet long-distance breeding dispersal is relatively rare in birds, whereas longdistance natal dispersal is more common. To determine whether colonization of newly burned areas is driven primarily by breeding dispersal of adults or natal dispersal by young birds, we captured 57 adult Black-backed Woodpeckers in 6 burned areas in California between 1 and 8 yr after fire. We used patterns of multiple feather generations retained among primary coverts, secondaries, and secondary coverts to assign birds to 1 of 5 age classes (second-, third-, and fourth-calendar-year; after-third-calendar-year; and after-fourth-calendar-year). Population age structure varied dramatically across burned areas, with a preponderance of second-calendar-year birds in the 1 yr and 2 yr postfire areas, and a preponderance of birds at least 3 yr old in the older postfire areas. Poisson generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs) revealed that the effect of years since fire on woodpecker age was highly significant (z = 3.575, P < 0.001). Our results indicate that natal dispersal is the primary means by which Black-backed Woodpeckers colonize recently burned areas in western forests, and that breeding dispersal is uncommon. The decline of Black-backed Woodpecker populations 6-10 yr after fire likely reflects the lifespan of individual birds that colonized the burned area, or of offspring that they produced in the early postfire years. Our discrimination of Black-backed Woodpeckers into 5 age classes confirms previous suppositions about plumage-based age determination in woodpeckers, and is likely applicable to other woodpecker species.	[Siegel, RB; Wilkerson, RL; Pyle, P] Inst Bird Populat, Point Reyes Stn, CA USA; [Tingley, MW] Univ Connecticut, Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT USA; [Howell, CA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Vallejo, CA USA; [Johnson, M] US Forest Serv, USDA, Plumas Natl Forest, Quincy, CA USA	Siegel, RB (reprint author), Inst Bird Populat, Point Reyes Stn, CA USA.	rsiegel@birdpop.org		Tingley, Morgan/0000-0002-1477-2218	2	25	AMER ORNITHOLOGISTS UNION	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA	http://www.nmnh.si.edu/BIRDNET/AOU/index.html	0004-8038		AUK	AUK	2016	JAN	133	1				69	78	10		DE1WT	CCC:000370417900007		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Camprodon, JFaus, JSalvanya, PSoler-Zurita, JRomero, JL	Camprodon, Jordi; Faus, Jordi; Salvanya, Pep; Soler-Zurita, Jaume; Luis Romero, Jose		Suitability of poplar plantations for a cavity-nesting specialist, the Lesser Spotted Woodpecker Dendrocopos minor, in the Mediterranean mosaic landscape	ACTA ORNITHOLOGICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Dendrocopos minor, Dryobates minor, poplar plantations, habitat selection, nest-site selection, conservation, forest management, ecological trap, Mediterranean region, Populus sp.	HOME-RANGE, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, HABITAT PREFERENCES, ECOLOGICAL TRAPS, BREEDING-SEASON, FORESTS, CONSERVATION, BIRDS, POPULATION, BEHAVIOR	Monocultures of even-aged trees in short rotation are a forest system of low ecological complexity that has been described as unsuitable for the establishment of stable populations of forest birds. However, key habitat quality cues could make them attractive to forest specialists. This paper assesses the suitability of poplar plantations in the northeast of the Iberian Peninsula for a forest specialist, the Lesser Spotted Woodpecker Dendrocopos minor. Poplar stands occupy a small area of an agroforestry mosaic landscape where semi-natural Mediterranean woodland is predominant. Population size, nesting success, home ranges and habitat selection were studied by radio-tracking and monitoring during the breeding season and the winter. Poplar plantations were preferentially selected for breeding and foraging in the spring and the winter. Home ranges in the breeding season and the winter (32.4 and 438.5 ha, respectively) were similar to those observed in semi-natural woodlands that have been studied in Europe. However, population density (0.25 territories/100 ha) was lower than that described in most European semi-natural woodlands. Nesting success was low (0.54), due to strong competition with other cavity nesters, predation of nests by the Greater Spotted Woodpecker, and loss of one of the adults. Fifty per cent of the foraging activity during the breeding season took place in an area of 180 metres around the nest. The amount of standing dead wood in poplar stands was much higher than in the surrounding habitats and source areas. The moderate breeding success and the high rate of adult predation may suggest that poplar plantations act as an ecological trap, in which standing dead wood may be a habitat quality cue that attracts birds to this non-ideal habitat. Poplar plantations become even less suitable when most of the available habitat is felled at the same time. Suitable planning of poplar plantation rotations and recovery of riparian forest is the best way to ensure the survival of Lesser Spotted Woodpecker populations in the long term.	[Camprodon, J] Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Km 2, E-25280 Catalonia, Spain; [Camprodon, J] Univ Vic, BETA Technol Ctr, Univ Cent Catalunya, C Laura 13, Vic Catalonia 08500, Spain; [Faus, J] Consorci Proteccio & Gestio Espais Interes Nat Ri, Ribes De Freser 17534, Catalonia, Spain; [Salvanya, P] Mas El Coll, E-08570 Torello, Catalonia, Spain; [Soler-Zurita, J] Daur Serv Ambientals & Biodiversitat, Esparreguera 08292, Catalonia, Spain; [Romero, JL] Inst Catala Ornitol, Museu Ciencies Nat Zool, Barcelona 08003, Catalonia, Spain	Camprodon, J (reprint author), Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Km 2, E-25280 Catalonia, Spain.	jordi.camprodon@ctfc.cat			3	27	MUSEUM & INST ZOOLOGY	WARSAW	WILCZA 64, PL-00-679 WARSAW, POLAND		0001-6454		ACTA ORNITHOL	Acta Ornithol.	2015	WIN	50	2				157	169	13		DF6DZ	CCC:000371447400004					2019-04-10J	Mag, ZOdor, P	Mag, Zs.; Odor, P.		The effect of stand-level habitat characteristics on breeding bird assemblages in Hungarian temperate mixed forests	COMMUNITY ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bird community, Land use history, Species richness, Stand composition, Stand structure, Vegetation type	TREE SPECIES COMPOSITION, LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE, CONIFEROUS FORESTS, AVIAN RICHNESS, MANAGED FOREST, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITIES, CONSERVATION, VARIABLES, BOREAL	The effects of stand structure, tree species composition, proportion of habitat types and land use history on breeding bird assemblages in temperate mixed forests in Western Hungary were studied. The species richness, the abundance and the composition of the whole breeding bird assemblage and of some groups formed on the basis of nesting site and rarity were examined. Stand structural variables had the highest impact on the breeding bird assemblage, while tree species composition, the varying proportion of vegetation types and land use history had no significant effect. In the case of the species richness, the abundance and the composition of the whole assemblage, the most important variables were the mean diameter of trees, the vegetation cover of the forest floor and the dead wood volume. The explained variance in the linear models of different groups varied between 20% and 60%, and the relative importance of these three variables also differed considerably. These results indicate that forest management may considerably influence the diversity and the composition of birds, as all the structural elements affecting birds deeply depend on it. Within the shelterwood management system, the elongation of the rotation and regeneration periods, and the relatively high proportion of retention tree groups after harvest could contribute to the conservation of forest birds. Our results also showed that for the forest bird communities, both the prevalence of big trees and the presence of a dense understory layer are important. Management regimes which apply continuous forest cover might be more appropriate for providing these structural elements simultaneously on small spatial scales, and for the maintenance of a more diverse bird community, thus healthier forest ecosystems.	[Mag, Z] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Dept Plant Systemat Ecol & Theoret Biol, Pazmany Peter Setany 1-C, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary; [Odor, P] Inst Ecol & Bot, MTA Ctr Ecol Res, H-2163 Vacratot, Hungary	Mag, Z (reprint author), Eotvos Lorand Univ, Dept Plant Systemat Ecol & Theoret Biol, Pazmany Peter Setany 1-C, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary.	magzsuzsa@gmail.com; odor.peter@okologia.mta.hu			0	18	AKADEMIAI KIADO RT	BUDAPEST	PRIELLE K U 19, PO BOX 245,, H-1117 BUDAPEST, HUNGARY	http://www.akkrt.hu/	1585-8553		COMMUNITY ECOL	Community Ecol.	2015	DEC	16	2				156	166	11		DC7VP	CCC:000369429000003					2019-04-10J	Barzan, FRBaigorria, JMEBo, RF	Romina Barzan, Flavia; Emanuel Baigorria, Julian Martin; Fabian Bo, Roberto		Bird community diversity in three habitat types in an ecological corridor in the Atlantic Forest of Misiones province, Argentina	TROPICAL CONSERVATION SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	alpha, beta and gamma diversity, ecological restoration, South America	EXOTIC TREE PLANTATIONS, FRAGMENTED LANDSCAPE, TEMPERATE FOREST, CLOUD FOREST, MATRIX, ASSEMBLAGES, RICHNESS, BIODIVERSITY, SIMILARITY, ABUNDANCE	The Atlantic Forest is one of the most threatened biodiversity hotspots in the world due to habitat fragmentation. Restoration and connectivity of forest fragments are crucial to maintain viable populations of forest-dependent species. During winter and summer, we studied the bird diversity, its components and composition (including specialist and generalist species) in three different vegetation types: mature forest (MF), secondary forest (SF) and grassland (G) of an ecological corridor in Misiones, Argentina. We determined the influence of alpha diversity (of each habitat) and beta diversity (species turnover between habitats) on gamma diversity (regional diversity in the corridor), to provide conservation management recommendations. MF showed the highest values of bird diversity, richness, evenness and abundance, followed by SF and G, in both seasons. Only MF showed a possible seasonal variation in diversity and richness. The species composition of SF was similar to MF. However, G, where pasture specialist and edge species were the most common species recorded (70% of its avifauna), had very low similarity to MF, where the most forest specialist species were found (53%). As alpha diversities were higher than beta values, the bird diversity in the studied corridor mainly resulted from the diversity in each vegetation type, in both studied seasons. We therefore recommend preservation of both MF and recovering SF due to their high bird diversity and the presence of forest-dependent, threatened and endemic bird species. We also urge the creation of ecological corridors between protected forest remnants of the Atlantic Forest.	[Barzan, FR; Bo, RF] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Dept Ecol Genet & Evoluc, Grp Invest Ecol Humedales GIEH CONICET,Lab Ecol R, RA-1428 Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Baigorria, JME] Ctr Invest Bosque Atlantico CeIBA CONICET, RA-3370 Puerto Iguazu, Misiones, Argentina	Barzan, FR (reprint author), Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Dept Ecol Genet & Evoluc, Grp Invest Ecol Humedales GIEH CONICET,Lab Ecol R, Intendente gUIRALEDS & Av Cantilo S-N,Pabellon 2, RA-1428 Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina.	flaviabarzan@gmail.com; julianbaigorria@gmail.com; rober@ege.fcen.uba.ar			4	36	SAGE PUBLICATIONS INC	THOUSAND OAKS	2455 TELLER RD, THOUSAND OAKS, CA 91320 USA	http://www.sagepub.co.uk	1940-0829		TROP CONSERV SCI	Trop. Conserv. Sci.	2015	DEC	8	4				955	974	20	10.1177/194008291500800406	DB4GV	CCC:000368472400006		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Estrada, ADelibes-Mateos, MCaro, JVinuela, JDiaz-Fernandez, SCasas, FArroyo, B	Estrada, A.; Delibes-Mateos, M.; Caro, J.; Vinuela, J.; Diaz-Fernandez, S.; Casas, F.; Arroyo, B.		Does small-game management benefit steppe birds of conservation concern? A field study in central Spain	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bustards, game management, predator control, red-legged partridge, sandgrouse, small game, steppe birds, supplementary feeding	RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGE, HARRIER CIRCUS-CYANEUS, BUSTARDS TETRAX-TETRAX, GREY PARTRIDGE, ALECTORIS-RUFA, BREEDING SUCCESS, PERDIX-PERDIX, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, HABITAT MANAGEMENT, POPULATION-DENSITY	In Europe, hunting and game management are centuries-old activities that have had profound effects on the landscapes and the biodiversity they support. Game management is a potentially important tool to enhance game populations and may also affect other wildlife. We investigated the relationship between red-legged partridge Alectoris rufa game management and steppe-bird abundance in central Spain. We surveyed 54 red-legged partridge hunting estates with varying game-management intensity in spring and/or summer in 2006 and 2008-2010. Information about game management was gathered through questionnaires to game managers. Birds were counted from fixed points and the amount of different land uses in each point was visually estimated. Our results show that the abundance of granivorous species (sandgrouse) increased significantly with the density of feeders, whereas non-granivorous species were more abundant in estates with more intensive fox control, although the latter relationship was weaker. Land-use variables, specifically agricultural lands, appeared in the models of all the groups considered. Therefore, there is an option for designing optimal management for red-legged partridge estates that potentially benefits non-target species: an effective combination of habitat management, adequate use of supplementary food and water, and possibly selective legal predator control when necessary and effective for the target game species, although the latter needs further investigation.	[Estrada, A; Delibes-Mateos, M; Caro, J; Vinuela, J; Diaz-Fernandez, S; Casas, F; Arroyo, B] CSIC UCLM JCCM, Inst Invest Recursos Cineget IREC, Ciudad Real, Spain; [Estrada, A] Univ Evora, CIBIO InBIO, P-7000890 Evora, Portugal; [Delibes-Mateos, M] Univ Porto, CIBIO InBIO, Vairao Vila Do Conde, Portugal; [Delibes-Mateos, M] Inst Estudios Sociales Avanzados IESA CSIC, Cordoba, Spain; [Casas, F] Estac Expt Zonas Aridas CSIC, Almeria, Spain	Estrada, A (reprint author), Univ Evora, CIBIO InBIO, Casa Cordovil 2 Andar, P-7000890 Evora, Portugal.	albaestradaa@gmail.com	Arroyo, Beatriz/A-3504-2013; ESTRADA, ALBA/A-9632-2018; Delibes-Mateos, Miguel/F-8733-2014; Casas, Fabian/Y-3021-2018; Vinuela, Javier/	Arroyo, Beatriz/0000-0002-4657-6609; ESTRADA, ALBA/0000-0003-2727-1970; Delibes-Mateos, Miguel/0000-0002-3823-5935; Casas, Fabian/0000-0003-3662-6585; Vinuela, Javier/0000-0002-8916-0398	4	36	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2015	DEC	18	6				567	575	9		DA3CC	CCC:000367672500009					2019-04-10J	Bell, DHjalten, JNilsson, CJorgensen, DJohansson, T	Bell, David; Hjalten, Joakim; Nilsson, Christer; Jorgensen, Dolly; Johansson, Therese		Forest restoration to attract a putative umbrella species, the white-backed woodpecker, benefited saproxylic beetles	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	beetle, boreal, broadleaved, dead wood, deciduous, forest, natural disturbance, restoration, saproxylic, Sweden, umbrella species, woodpecker	BOREAL FOREST, TOP PREDATORS, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, DEAD WOOD, COLEOPTERA, HABITAT, SELECTION, RICHNESS, LESSONS, MAMMALS	Umbrella species are often spatially demanding and have limited ability to adapt to environmental changes induced by human land-use. This makes them vulnerable to human encroachment. In Sweden, broadleaved trees are disadvantaged by forestry, and commercially managed forests are often deprived of dead wood. This has led to a situation where previously widespread top predators in saproxylic food webs, such as the white-backed woodpecker (Dendrocopos leucotos), have become species of conservation concern. The white-backed woodpecker is generally considered an umbrella species, and it has been linked to forests with large volumes of dead wood from broadleaved trees. In recent years, forest stands have been restored for the white-backed woodpecker, but post-treatment evaluations have rarely included other species that also occur in broad-leaved forests (co-occurring species). Many co-occurring species are saproxylic beetles. In this study, we collected saproxylic beetles and environmental data in restored and commercially managed forests to evaluate if habitat restoration for the white-backed woodpecker also benefited other species with similar habitat associations. We found that volumes of coarse woody debris were higher in restored than in commercially managed forests, and that a majority of man-made snags and downed logs were created from birch trees (Betula spp.). Most spruce trees (Picea abies) were extracted during forest restoration, and this opened up the forest canopy, and created stands dominated by broadleaved trees. Many saproxylic beetles were more common in restored forests, and there were significant differences in species composition between treatments. These differences were largely explained by species traits. Effects of sun-exposure were particularly important, but many beneficiary species were also linked to dead wood from broadleaved trees. Red-listed saproxylic beetles showed a similar pattern with more species and individuals in restored sites. The white-backed woodpecker is still critically endangered in Sweden, but important prey species are already responding to forest restoration at the stand level. We recognize that landscape-level improvements will be required to bring the white-backed woodpecker back, but also that the umbrella species concept can provide a useful framework for successful forest restoration as many co-occurring saproxylic beetle species seemingly benefitted from restoration for the white-backed woodpecker.	[Bell, D; Hjalten, J; Johansson, T] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Wildlife Fish & Environm Studies, SE-90183 Umea, Sweden; [Nilsson, C] Umea Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Landscape Ecol Grp, SE-90187 Umea, Sweden; [Jorgensen, D] Lulea Univ Technol, Dept Business Adm Technol & Social Sci, SE-97187 Lulea, Sweden	Bell, D (reprint author), Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Wildlife Fish & Environm Studies, SE-90183 Umea, Sweden.	joakim.hjalten@slu.se	Johansson, Therese/; Nilsson, Christer/; Jorgensen, Dolly/B-9148-2012	Johansson, Therese/0000-0002-5864-2669; Nilsson, Christer/0000-0003-1186-8115; Jorgensen, Dolly/0000-0002-5391-9374	3	50	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2015	DEC	6	12				278	278	14		CZ7WS	CCC:000367311800031		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Sasaki, KLesbarreres, DWatson, GLitzgus, J	Sasaki, Kiyoshi; Lesbarreres, David; Watson, Glen; Litzgus, Jacqueline		Mining-caused changes to habitat structure affect amphibian and reptile population ecology more than metal pollution	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	abundance, amphibian and reptile communities, diversity, habitat restoration, multiple stressors, smelting, species richness, synergistic effects	INDUSTRIALLY DAMAGED LAKES, ACID-MINE DRAINAGE, SPECIES RICHNESS, CONSERVATION BIOLOGY, BIRD POPULATION, LANDSCAPE CONNECTIVITY, TERRESTRIAL HABITAT, MULTIPLE STRESSORS, EXTINCTION DEBT, WOODY DEBRIS	Emissions from smelting not only contaminate water and soil with metals, but also induce extensive forest dieback and changes in resource availability and microclimate. The relative effects of such co-occurring stressors are often unknown, but this information is imperative in developing targeted restoration strategies. We assessed the role and relative effects of structural alterations of terrestrial habitat and metal pollution caused by century-long smelting operations on amphibian and reptile communities by collecting environmental and time- and area-standardized multivariate abundance data along three spatially replicated impact gradients. Overall, species richness, diversity, and abundance declined progressively with increasing levels of metals (As, Cu, and Ni) and soil temperature (T-s) and decreasing canopy cover, amount of coarse woody debris (CWD), and relative humidity (RH). The composite habitat variable (which included canopy cover, CWD, T-s, and RH) was more strongly associated with most response metrics than the composite metal variable (As, Cu, and Ni), and canopy cover alone explained 19-74% of the variance. Moreover, species that use terrestrial habitat for specific behaviors (e.g., hibernation, dispersal), especially forest-dependent species, were more severely affected than largely aquatic species. These results suggest that structural alterations of terrestrial habitat and concomitant changes in the resource availability and microclimate have stronger effects than metal pollution per se. Furthermore, much of the variation in response metrics was explained by the joint action of several environmental variables, implying synergistic effects (e.g., exacerbation of metal toxicity by elevated temperatures in sites with reduced canopy cover). We thus argue that the restoration of terrestrial habitat conditions is a key to successful recovery of herpetofauna communities in smelting-altered landscapes.	[Sasaki, K; Lesbarreres, D; Litzgus, J] Laurentian Univ, Dept Biol, Sudbury, ON P3E 2C6, Canada; [Watson, G] Vale Canada Ltd, Decommissioning & Reclamat, Copper Cliff, ON P0M 1N0, Canada	Litzgus, J (reprint author), Laurentian Univ, Dept Biol, 935 Ramsey Lake Rd, Sudbury, ON P3E 2C6, Canada.	jlitzgus@laurentian.ca		Lesbarreres, David/0000-0002-5505-1935	1	49	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2015	DEC	25	8				2240	2254	15		CZ6KR	CCC:000367210700014	26910952				2019-04-10J	Hartmann, SASegelbacher, GJuina, MESchaefer, HM	Hartmann, Stefanie A.; Segelbacher, Gernot; Juina, Mery E.; Schaefer, H. Martin		Effects of habitat management can vary over time during the recovery of an endangered bird species	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Habitat management, Reproductive success, Survival, Vegetation control, Bird conservation, Conservation planning	FINCH ATLAPETES-PALLIDICEPS, ADAPTIVE MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION, FIRE, REQUIREMENTS, REPRODUCTION, BIODIVERSITY, LANDSCAPE, DIVERSITY, AUSTRALIA	Time and financial constraints often force conservationists to make ad hoc management decisions without sufficient knowledge to predict their effects. In particular, the effects of management on reproduction and survival are rarely evaluated and habitat dynamics are rarely taken into account. We evaluated the effects of three different forms of habitat alteration on the endangered Pale-headed Brushfinch (Atlapetes pallidiceps) in Ecuador during the phases of population increase and stabilization. More specifically, we monitored the effect of a natural experiment with three approaches (clearing, grazing and burning) to preserve the semi-open habitat of this species on the reproductive success of 220 breeding events over seven years and on the survival of 73 adults over three consecutive years. Habitat alteration had contrasting effects on reproduction and survival. All approaches increased the number of fledged chicks per breeding event while the population stabilized, but not while it increased. However, vegetation burning reduced survival probability of adult individuals. In addition, survival was strongly correlated to the presence of water in the territories. Overall, we revealed that the negative effects of vegetation burning on survival overrode the positive effects on reproduction, and could if implemented at a larger scale destroy the conservation aim of increasing the population size. Importantly, we show that the effectiveness of management differs depending on the actual population trend. Our study therefore shows that the a posteriori evaluation of ad hoc vegetation control can constitute an integral part of adaptive management and thereby also of long-term conservation planning of endangered species. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Hartmann, SA; Schaefer, HM] Univ Freiburg, Fac Biol, Dept Evolutionary Biol & Anim Ecol, D-79104 Freiburg, Germany; [Hartmann, SA; Segelbacher, G] Univ Freiburg, Wildlife Ecol & Management, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany; [Juina, ME] Yanayacu Biol Stn, Cosanga, Ecuador	Hartmann, SA (reprint author), Univ Freiburg, Fac Biol, Dept Evolutionary Biol & Anim Ecol, Hauptstr 1, D-79104 Freiburg, Germany.	Stefanie.hartmann.wildlife@gmail.com			1	29	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2015	DEC	192					154	160	7		CY6TB	CCC:000366540600018					2019-04-10J	Bircak, TReif, J	Bircak, Tomas; Reif, Jiri		The effects of tree age and tree species composition on bird species richness in a Central European montane forest	BIOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	diversity, bird communities, More Individuals Hypothesis, species pool, forest management, primeval conditions, habitat specialization	TEMPERATE FOREST, STAND STRUCTURE, BETA DIVERSITY, NATURE-RESERVE, COMMUNITIES, SPECIALIZATION, ABUNDANCE, PATTERNS, AVIFAUNA, ENERGY	Large areas of montane forests are commercially harvested, while some other parts remain unmanaged. These conditions provide an opportunity to study the response of bird communities to forest management. Here we focused on the effects of tree species composition and tree age on bird species richness. We counted birds in two types of montane forest (beech and mixed) replicated in three age classes (managed 55-65 years, managed 85-95 years, unmanaged over 200 years) in the Vtacnik Mountains, Slovakia. Number of bird species at individual study sites (local richness) was predicted solely by the tree age and not by the forest type. Specifically, the number of species was highest in the oldest stands, while the stands of 55-65 and 85-95 years did not differ from each other. By contrast, forest type seems important for total bird species richness (number of species recorded in all study sites of a given type) with more species recorded in mixed forests than in beech forests. The local richness seems thus limited by the amount resources available at a given site, which is highest in the oldest stands irrespective to forest type, probably due to largest amount of food, dead wood or tree cavities, being particularly suitable for habitat specialists. However, larger species pool in mixed forest, enriched by birds adapted to coniferous trees, increases the total number of species observed in this type. We thus recommend to shift the harvest to the highest possible age and to include some other tree species into parts of beech monocultures.	[Bircak, T; Reif, J] Charles Univ Prague, Inst Environm Studies, Fac Sci, Benatska 2, CZ-12801 Prague 2, Czech Republic; [Reif, J] Palacky Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Olomouc 77146, Czech Republic; [Reif, J] Palacky Univ, Fac Sci, Ornithol Lab, Olomouc 77146, Czech Republic	Reif, J (reprint author), Charles Univ Prague, Inst Environm Studies, Fac Sci, Benatska 2, CZ-12801 Prague 2, Czech Republic.	jirireif@natur.cuni.cz	Reif, Jiri/I-9168-2017	Reif, Jiri/0000-0003-2553-7333	3	24	WALTER DE GRUYTER GMBH	BERLIN	GENTHINER STRASSE 13, D-10785 BERLIN, GERMANY	http://www.degruyter.de	0006-3088		BIOLOGIA	Biologia	2015	NOV	70	11				1528	1536	9		DC0DH	CCC:000368886700015					2019-04-10J	Jessop, JSpyreas, GPociask, GEBenson, TJWard, MPKent, ADMatthews, JW	Jessop, Jordan; Spyreas, Greg; Pociask, Geoffrey E.; Benson, Thomas J.; Ward, Michael P.; Kent, Angela D.; Matthews, Jeffrey W.		Tradeoffs among ecosystem services in restored wetlands	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Biodiversity, Ecological restoration, Landscape context, Offset policies, Water quality, Wetland mitigation	LAND-USE, COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, NUTRIENT RETENTION, RIPARIAN WETLANDS, MISSISSIPPI RIVER, SPECIES RICHNESS, CREATED WETLANDS, BIODIVERSITY, RESTORATION, WATER	Land management decisions frequently involve choices that reflect tradeoffs among ecosystem services. These tradeoffs are not always apparent, and land managers unknowingly may make decisions that diminish the value of some services while enhancing the value of others. Offset policies, such as wetland mitigation in the United States, rely on the assumption that ecosystems can be restored to provide a full suite of services. Wetlands provide many ecosystem services such as water quality maintenance, carbon storage, flood abatement, and biodiversity support. Our objectives were to describe tradeoffs among ecosystem services in mitigation wetlands and identify abiotic and biotic drivers underlying these tradeoffs. We measured denitrification potential, organic matter decomposition, herbaceous biomass, and soil organic content as indicators of nutrient storage and removal services in 30 mitigation wetlands in Illinois, USA. Additionally, we estimated surface-water storage potential, and, since wetlands provide valuable biodiversity support, we determined the species composition of plant, anuran, and avian communities. We found a positive relationship among biodiversity indicators for different taxa. Denitrification potential and surface-water storage potential were positively correlated. However, there was a tradeoff between biodiversity support and nutrient cycling processes; soil organic matter, biomass, decomposition rates, and potential denitrification were greater at less biodiverse sites. Our findings indicate that optimizing restored wetlands for nutrient storage and removal may come at the expense of biodiversity. It is unrealistic to expect all services to be maximized at a restoration site. Therefore, restoration practitioners should prioritize services based on needs and opportunities given local and watershed contexts. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Jessop, J; Ward, MP; Kent, AD; Matthews, JW] Univ Illinois, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Spyreas, G; Benson, TJ; Ward, MP] Univ Illinois, Prairie Res Inst, Illinois Nat Hist Survey, Champaign, IL 61820 USA; [Pociask, GE] Univ Illinois, Prairie Res Inst, Illinois State Geol Survey, Champaign, IL 61820 USA	Matthews, JW (reprint author), Univ Illinois, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Urbana, IL 61801 USA.	jmatthew@illinois.edu			7	168	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2015	NOV	191					341	348	8		CV4SP	CCC:000364257100039					2019-04-10J	Ivey, GLDugger, BDHerziger, CPCasazza, MLFleskes, JP	Ivey, Gary L.; Dugger, Bruce D.; Herziger, Caroline P.; Casazza, Michael L.; Fleskes, Joseph P.		Wintering ecology of sympatric subspecies of Sandhill Crane: Correlations between body size, site fidelity, and movement patterns	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	California, conservation planning, Grus canadensis, home range, Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, Sandhill Crane, scale, site fidelity, wintering ecology	HOME-RANGE, CANADA GEESE, SNOW-GEESE, INCUBATION BEHAVIOR, COMMON CRANES, ROOST SITES, HABITAT USE, BIRDS, SELECTION, TIME	Body size is known to correlate with many aspects of life history in birds, and this knowledge can be used to manage and conserve bird species. However, few studies have compared the wintering ecology of sympatric subspecies that vary significantly in body size. We used radiotelemetry to examine the relationship between body size and site fidelity, movements, and home range in 2 subspecies of Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis) wintering in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta of California, USA. Both subspecies showed high interannual return rates to the Delta study area, but Greater Sandhill Cranes (G. c. tabida) showed stronger within-winter fidelity to landscapes in our study region and to roost complexes within landscapes than did Lesser Sandhill Cranes (G. c. canadensis). Foraging flights from roost sites were shorter for G. c. tabida than for G. c. canadensis (1.9 +/- 0.01 km vs. 4.5 +/- 0.01 km, respectively) and, consequently, the mean size of 95% fixed-kernel winter home ranges was an order of magnitude smaller for G. c. tabida than for G. c. canadensis (1.9 +/- 0.4 km(2) vs. 21.9 +/- 1.9 km(2), respectively). Strong site fidelity indicates that conservation planning to manage for adequate food resources around traditional roost sites can be effective for meeting the habitat needs of these cranes, but the scale of conservation efforts should differ by subspecies. Analysis of movement patterns suggests that conservation planners and managers should consider all habitats within 5 km of a known G. c. tabida roost and within 10 km of a G. c. canadensis roost when planning for habitat management, mitigation, acquisition, and easements.	[Ivey, GL; Dugger, BD; Herziger, CP] Oregon State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Casazza, ML; Fleskes, JP] US Geol Survey, Western Ecol Res Ctr, Dixon, CA USA	Ivey, GL (reprint author), Int Crane Fdn, Bend, OR 53913 USA.	ivey@savingcranes.org		casazza, Mike/0000-0002-5636-735X	2	31	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2015	NOV	117	4				518	529	12		CV4HT	CCC:000364228500004					2019-04-10J	Asner, GPOwen-Smith, NLoarie, SRDavies, ABLe Roux, ELevick, SR	Asner, G. P.; Owen-Smith, N.; Loarie, S. R.; Davies, A. B.; Le Roux, E.; Levick, S. R.		Habitat differences do not explain population declines of sable antelope in an African savanna	JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	savanna ecology, animal movement, Carnegie Airborne Observatory, habitat use, Kruger National Park, LiDAR, vegetation structure	KRUGER-NATIONAL-PARK, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, FIRE, DYNAMICS, BEHAVIOR, SUCCESS, LIONS	Sable antelope, Hippotragus niger, populations have declined substantially in Kruger National Park, South Africa despite large-area protection from land use and poaching. Since Africa's large mammal populations are restricted to protected areas, understanding how to manage parks for biological diversity is critically important to the sustainability of faunal populations into the future. To better understand the drivers of sable decline, we analyzed landscapes where herds persist in the Pretoriuskop region of Kruger - identified by GPS collar telemetry data from eight individuals in five herds remaining in this area, and compared them to landscapes where sable herds have recently disappeared. We mapped these landscapes with satellite-based spectral data on vegetation greenness and fire frequency and Carnegie Airborne Observatory LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) data on 3-D vegetation structure. Within their home ranges, sable herds consistently selected areas with high fire frequency, high tree cover and low shrub cover. However, there were no consistent differences in habitat features between the home ranges of current sable herds and areas formerly supporting herds. Locally deteriorating habitat conditions were therefore not responsible for the decline in sables in this region of the park. Our study also illustrates how multi-sensor, 3-D mapping of ecosystems provides a means to assess causes and consequences of changing animal habitats over time.	[Asner, GP; Loarie, SR; Davies, AB] Carnegie Inst Sci, Dept Global Ecol, Stanford, CA 94110 USA; [Owen-Smith, N; Le Roux, E] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, Ctr African Ecol, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Levick, SR] Max Planck Inst Biogeochem, D-07745 Jena, Germany	Asner, GP (reprint author), Carnegie Inst Sci, Dept Global Ecol, Stanford, CA 94110 USA.	gpa@carnegiescience.edu	Levick, Shaun/A-5853-2013; Davies, Andrew/; Owen-Smith, Norman/; Le Roux, Elizabeth/	Levick, Shaun/0000-0003-4437-9174; Davies, Andrew/0000-0002-0003-1435; Owen-Smith, Norman/0000-0001-8429-1201; Le Roux, Elizabeth/0000-0001-8468-8284	6	33	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0952-8369		J ZOOL	J. Zool.	2015	NOV	297	3				225	234	10		CV9YE	CCC:000364643900008					2019-04-10J	Dendy, JCordell, SGiardina, CPHwang, BPolloi, ERengulbai, K	Dendy, Julian; Cordell, Susan; Giardina, Christian P.; Hwang, Bernice; Polloi, Edwin; Rengulbai, Kashgar		The role of remnant forest patches for habitat restoration in degraded areas of Palau	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	assisted regeneration, Babeldaob, birds, flying fox, nucleation, Pacific Islands	BIRD SPECIES RICHNESS, TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, APPLIED NUCLEATION, MONTANE FOREST, TREE ISLANDS, LOS-TUXTLAS, RECRUITMENT, SUCCESSION, STRATEGY, PASTURES	To be successful, prescriptions for tropical forest restoration should facilitate natural recovery while also being easy to implement and inexpensive. In the Lake Ngardok Nature Reserve, Palau, we monitored native forest patches (4-275 m(2)) over 3 years to assess the influence of several low-cost restoration methods on patch expansion, growth of naturally established tree saplings, density of naturally establishing tree seedlings, growth of planted tree seedlings, flower and fruit production, and bird and flying fox visitations. Treatments included fertilization, trimming of surrounding herbaceous vegetation, mulching of patch perimeters, and planting native tree seedlings. Fertilized patches expanded faster and were associated with higher growth rates of perimeter saplings, higher fruit and flower production and growth of adjacent planted Acacia auriculiformis trees. Trimming perimeter vegetation led to higher tree seedling densities and species diversity, but both trimming and fertilizer effects on patch perimeter measures decreased over time. Pterocarpus indicus, a high value native legume, was the fastest growing planted tree species. The most common visitors were small, omnivorous, predominately endemic bird species. Visitations to fertilized patches were more frequent than to non-fertilized patches. The strongest predictors of visitation frequency were patch area, mean number of total fruits, and mean height of nearest neighboring trees. We conclude that forest succession can be accelerated by applying small amounts of fertilizer (approximately 22.5 g/m(2) per application) to enhance tree growth and increase visitation rates of native pollinators and dispersers.	[Dendy, J] Coral Reef Res Fdn, Koror 96940, PW, Palau; [Dendy, J; Cordell, S; Giardina, CP] US Forest Serv, Inst Pacific Isl Forestry, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, USDA, Hilo, HI 96720 USA; [Hwang, B] Natl Ecol Observ Network Inc, Boulder, CO 80301 USA; [Polloi, E; Rengulbai, K] Bur Agr, Palau Forestry, Koror 96940, PW, Palau	Dendy, J (reprint author), Coral Reef Res Fdn, POB 1765, Koror 96940, PW, Palau.	jdendy@hawaii.edu	Giardina, Christian/C-3120-2011	Giardina, Christian/0000-0002-3431-5073	3	43	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2015	NOV	23	6				872	881	10		CU6VA	CCC:000363671300017					2019-04-10J	Sun, HSantalahti, MPumpanen, JKoster, KBerninger, FRaffaello, TJumpponen, AAsiegbu, FOHeinonsalo, J	Sun, Hui; Santalahti, Minna; Pumpanen, Jukka; Koster, Kajar; Berninger, Frank; Raffaello, Tommaso; Jumpponen, Ari; Asiegbu, Fred O.; Heinonsalo, Jussi		Fungal Community Shifts in Structure and Function across a Boreal Forest Fire Chronosequence	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Life Sciences (LS)	BIOLOGY, MICROBIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics; Microbiology		SOIL ORGANIC-MATTER, ECTOMYCORRHIZAL FUNGI, MICROBIAL COMMUNITIES, SPECIES RICHNESS, CARBON, DIVERSITY, BIOMASS, MICROARRAY, DECOMPOSITION, SENSITIVITY	Forest fires are a common natural disturbance in forested ecosystems and have a large impact on the microbial communities in forest soils. The response of soil fungal communities to forest fire is poorly documented. Here, we investigated fungal community structure and function across a 152-year boreal forest fire chronosequence using high-throughput sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region and a functional gene array (GeoChip). Our results demonstrate that the boreal forest soil fungal community was most diverse soon after a fire disturbance and declined over time. The differences in the fungal communities were explained by changes in the abundance of basidiomycetes and ascomycetes. Ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi contributed to the increase in basidiomycete abundance over time, with the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) representing the genera Cortinarius and Piloderma dominating in abundance. Hierarchical cluster analysis by using gene signal intensity revealed that the sites with different fire histories formed separate clusters, suggesting differences in the potential to maintain essential biogeochemical soil processes. The site with the greatest biological diversity had also the most diverse genes. The genes involved in organic matter degradation in the mature forest, in which ECM fungi were the most abundant, were as common in the youngest site, in which saprotrophic fungi had a relatively higher abundance. This study provides insight into the impact of fire disturbance on soil fungal community dynamics.	[Sun, H; Santalahti, M; Heinonsalo, J] Univ Helsinki, Dept Food & Environm Sci, Helsinki, Finland; [Sun, H; Pumpanen, J; Koster, K; Berninger, F; Raffaello, T; Asiegbu, FO] Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, Helsinki, Finland; [Koster, K] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Forestry & Rural Engn, Tartu, Estonia; [Jumpponen, A] Kansas State Univ, Div Biol, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA	Sun, H (reprint author), Univ Helsinki, Dept Food & Environm Sci, Helsinki, Finland.	hui.sun@helsinki.fi	Pumpanen, Jukka/B-1254-2012; Berninger, Frank/A-8891-2010; Koster, Kajar/C-8397-2012; Asiegbu, Fred O/; Heinonsalo, Jussi/; Santalahti, Minna E/; Raffaello, Tommaso/	Pumpanen, Jukka/0000-0003-4879-3663; Berninger, Frank/0000-0001-7718-1661; Koster, Kajar/0000-0003-1988-5788; Asiegbu, Fred O/0000-0003-0223-7194; Heinonsalo, Jussi/0000-0001-8516-1388; Santalahti, Minna E/0000-0002-3004-1714; Raffaello, Tommaso/0000-0002-4074-0682	4	104	AMER SOC MICROBIOLOGY	WASHINGTON	1752 N ST NW, WASHINGTON, DC 20036-2904 USA	http://www.asm.org	0099-2240		APPL ENVIRON MICROB	Appl. Environ. Microbiol.	2015	NOV	81	22				7869	7880	12		CU3YY	CCC:000363463800020	26341215	Bronze, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Lorenz, TJVierling, KTKozma, JMMillard, JERaphael, MG	Lorenz, Teresa J.; Vierling, Kerri T.; Kozma, Jeffrey M.; Millard, Janet E.; Raphael, Martin G.		Space use by white-headed woodpeckers and selection for recent forest disturbances	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	burn, habitat selection, home range, mixed-severity prescribed fire, Picoides albolarvatus, Pinus ponderosa, ponderosa pine, resource selection, space use, white-headed woodpecker	BLACK-BACKED WOODPECKERS, HOME-RANGE SIZE, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, MIXED-CONIFER FOREST, HABITAT USE, SIERRA-NEVADA, SMALL MAMMALS, PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, SITE SELECTION, FIRE	White-headed woodpeckers (Picoides albolarvatus) are important cavity excavators that recently have become the focus of much research because of concerns over population declines. Past studies have focused on nest site selection and survival but information is needed on factors influencing their space use when away from the nest. We examined space use by white-headed woodpeckers during the nesting (May-Jul) and post-nesting (Jul-Oct) periods and compared the role of environmental factors (e.g., landcover) and socio-demographic factors (e.g., age, breeding success) in home range size and selection of location. Average size of 99% kernel home ranges was 125ha (SD +/- 59ha; n=19) in the nesting period and 137ha (SD +/- 70ha; n=30) in the post-nesting period. Minimum convex polygons were generally comparable to or smaller than ranges reported from previous radio-telemetry studies with this species. Although bird weight and age best explained variation in home range size compared to other factors, neither parameter estimate was significant in our models. Thus, even though weight and age were the most-supported factors in our analysis, home range size was largely influenced by factors that we did not measure. We found that most woodpeckers selected home ranges within forest patches that had undergone a recent disturbance; these areas included forests that had recently been burned with prescribed fire by the United States Forest Service (82%) or subject to disease (16%). Most burned patches in our study were small (approx. 4.8ha) and occurred within otherwise live forest but had nearly complete mortality of adult trees. We suggest that recent forest disturbances, especially mixed-severity prescribed burns, may have been selected by white-headed woodpeckers because they created snags for nesting and future studies should explore this hypothesis. Because home range size was variable and not linked with productivity, it should not be used as an indication of habitat quality without more detailed studies on causal factors that affect space use in this species. Published 2015. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.	[Lorenz, TJ; Vierling, KT] Univ Idaho, Dept Fish & Wildlife Sci, Moscow, ID 83844 USA; [Kozma, JM] Yakama Nat, Timber Fish & Wildlife Fisheries Resource Managem, Toppenish, WA 98942 USA; [Millard, JE] US Forest Serv, USDA, Leavenworth, WA 98826 USA; [Raphael, MG] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific NW Res Stn, Olympia, WA 98512 USA	Lorenz, TJ (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific NW Res Stn, 3625 93rd Ave SW, Olympia, WA 98512 USA.	tlorenz@fs.fed.us	Vierling, Kerri/N-6653-2016		2	51	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2015	NOV	79	8				1286	1297	12		CU3IP	CCC:000363418200009					2019-04-10J	Fuentes-Montemayor, EPeredo-Alvarez, VMWatts, KPark, KJ	Fuentes-Montemayor, Elisa; Peredo-Alvarez, Victor M.; Watts, Kevin; Park, Kirsty J.		Are woodland creation schemes providing suitable resources for biodiversity? Woodland moths as a case study	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agri-environment schemes, Lepidoptera, Spatial targeting, Woodland management	WIDESPREAD BRITISH MOTHS, FARM WOODLANDS, FOREST, FRAGMENTATION, CONSERVATION, COMMUNITIES, DIVERSITY, QUALITY, CONNECTIVITY, DETERMINANTS	Woodland, like many habitats throughout the world, has been severely affected by habitat loss and fragmentation. Woodland restoration programmes aimed at reversing habitat loss have been in place in many countries over the last 100 years. In particular, agri-environment schemes (AES) to increase the amount and quality of woodland on agricultural land have operated in Europe and Australia for decades (nearly 30 years in the United Kingdom). However, to date there has been very little assessment of their value to biodiversity. We assessed the potential benefits to biodiversity of woodlands planted during 1988-1991 under a woodland grant scheme (WGS in Scotland), according to local and landscape-level habitat characteristics. Specifically, we (1) performed a linear discriminant analysis to compare the characteristics of 24 WGS sites to those of more mature semi-natural woodlands (34 sites > 60 years old), and (2) used existing information on the influence of woodland characteristics on a biologically diverse group (i.e. moths) to quantify the benefits of WGS sites to biodiversity. The creation of new WGS patches increased woodland extent and connectivity in the landscape; however, planting that took place adjacent to previously existing woodland did not usually increase connectivity. WGS sites were mainly composed by broadleaved native tree species, but non-native species were also present. In general, WGS sites had lower tree species richness, proportion of native trees, tree basal area and amount of understory, and higher tree densities and canopy cover than more mature semi-natural woodlands. Overall, WGS sites were predicted to have lower moth abundance and species richness than older semi-natural woodlands. However, the magnitude of these differences depended on the habitat specificity and dispersal abilities of different moth groups, suggesting that WGS sites are better at providing suitable resources for generalist species and for species less limited by dispersal. Our findings have important implications for the way in which current woodland creation and management schemes operate in many countries and suggest that: (1) the creation of new woodlands should focus on planting native species, (2) woodland creation schemes are likely to be more beneficial for biodiversity if certain management practices (e.g. thinning to enhance structural diversity and accelerate the transition to later successional stages) accompany the provision of these grants, and (3) spatially-targeted woodland creation would further increase the contribution of AES woodlands to enhance biodiversity.	[Fuentes-Montemayor, E; Peredo-Alvarez, VM; Park, KJ] Univ Stirling, Sch Nat Sci, Biol & Environm Sci, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland; [Watts, K] Forest Res, Alice Holt Lodge, Surrey GU10 4LH, England	Fuentes-Montemayor, E (reprint author), Univ Stirling, Sch Nat Sci, Biol & Environm Sci, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland.	ef12@stir.ac.uk		Park, Kirsty/0000-0001-6080-7197; Fuentes-Montemayor, Elisa/0000-0002-5550-9432	2	34	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2015	NOV	24	12				3049	3070	22		CU0WQ	CCC:000363240000009					2019-04-10J	Sage, RBWilson, SPowell, T	Sage, Rufus B.; Wilson, Sue; Powell, Tony		Using fledged brood counts of hedgerow birds to assess the effect of summer agri-environment scheme options	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Farmland bird, Breeding success, Hedge, Detection probability	FARMLAND BIRDS, POSTFLEDGING DISPERSAL, HABITAT-USE, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, ENGLAND, NEST, MANAGEMENT, UK, PRODUCTIVITY	A key aim of many European agri-environment schemes (AES) is to improve biodiversity on farmland. In recent years, several countries have been looking at long term trends in the spring adult population size of a target group of farmland birds as an indicator of this. The overall trend in these indicators is however not upwards. While this might suggest we need to look at the design and deployment of habitat management options within schemes, there is an increasing view that we also need to refine and improve our indicators, or the way we monitor them.Relating spring adult bird population size to AES options is problematic not least because of the time lag between the deployment of those designed to enhance bird breeding success in summer, and the spring surveys the following year. At the other end of the scale detailed studies of breeding success in farmland birds have practical/cost restraints. We argue that to understand the impact on farmland birds of particular summer options within AESs we need to be able to estimate the breeding success of local bird populations quickly and cheaply. This would enable us to relate particular AES options to the breeding performance of the birds actually using them.Complementing a previous study of woodland birds, we assess the likelihood of encountering fledged broods of hedgerow nesting bird species during transect surveys without finding nests, and then apply a simple mark-recapture analysis technique to provide an index of breeding success for those species. Following spring adult assessments, counts of fledged broods were undertaken four times a week during April, May, June and July, in four 2.5 km hedgerow transects, at four sites in southern England in 2010. Mean daily detection probabilities of fledged broods of 16 common hedgerow birds were calculated from these counts using the software Presence. For 15 out of these 16 species these detection probabilities were sufficiently high for a programme of fledged brood surveys, involving just two or three visits per week from mid-May to mid-July, to provide a useful estimate of breeding success.The survey technique and associated analyses make certain assumptions when providing estimates of breeding success and these are discussed. Little is known about initial dispersal in passerine fledglings and a study in hedgerows may be useful here. However our pilot study suggests that the method could have application as a relatively easily derived productivity index for hedgerow birds, and hence an additional method available to study the impact of certain AES options on indicator species, or for research studies. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Sage, RB; Wilson, S; Powell, T] Game & Wildlife Conservat Trust, Fordingbridge SP6 1EF, Hants, England	Sage, RB (reprint author), Game & Wildlife Conservat Trust, Fordingbridge SP6 1EF, Hants, England.	rsage@gwct.org.uk			3	36	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2015	OCT	57					376	383	8		CN0GJ	CCC:000358091800043					2019-04-10J	Gould, SFMackey, BG	Gould, Susan F.; Mackey, Brendan G.		Site vegetation characteristics are more important than landscape context in determining bird assemblages in revegetation	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Australia, chronosequence, distance, habitat, isolation, mining	REHABILITATED BAUXITE MINES, LONG-TERM TRENDS, HABITAT RESTORATION, EASTERN AUSTRALIA, JARRAH FOREST, PATCH SIZE, RECOLONIZATION, POPULATIONS, FRAGMENTATION, CONNECTIVITY	The effectiveness of revegetation in providing habitat for fauna is expected to be determined both by within-site factors and attributes of the landscape in which a revegetation site occurs. Most studies of fauna in revegetation have been conducted in landscapes that have been extensively cleared, modified or fragmented, and in Australia, predominantly in the southern temperate zone. We investigated how within-site vegetation attributes and landscape context attributes were related to bird species richness and composition in a chronosequence of post-mining rehabilitation sites within an otherwise intact landscape in tropical northern Australia. Our working hypothesis was that bird species richness in rehabilitating sites would be positively related to site vegetation structure and landscape context including (1) proximity to woodland and (2) the proportion of woodland within a 500-m buffer of rehabilitation sites. Within each of 67 sites, we sampled vegetation once and surveyed for birds eight times over 16 months. Landscape context variables were calculated using GIS. There were large differences between bird assemblages of woodland and rehabilitation sites and between age classes of rehabilitation. Bird assemblages were strongly related to site vegetation attributes across all rehabilitation sites. Proximity to woodland was only related to bird assemblages in rehabilitation sites older than 4 years old. We conclude that the relative importance of landscape context and site variables at any point in time will be a function of how closely vegetation within the revegetation site matches the habitat resource requirements of individual species.	[Gould, SF; Mackey, BG] Griffith Univ, Griffith Climate Change Response Program, Southport, Qld 4222, Australia	Gould, SF (reprint author), Griffith Univ, Griffith Climate Change Response Program, Bldg G01,Parklands Dr, Southport, Qld 4222, Australia.	s.gould@griffith.edu.au		Mackey, Brendan/0000-0003-1996-4064	1	24	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2015	SEP	23	5				670	680	11		CU6UT	CCC:000363670400022		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Werema, C	Werema, Chacha		Effects of fire on understorey birds in Kimboza Forest Reserve in the eastern foothills of the Uluguru Mountains, Tanzania	AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	abundance, bird species diversity, burning, Eastern Arc Mountains, mist nets	AMAZONIAN FORESTS, FRAGMENTATION, RESPONSES, SAVANNA	Fire is one of the main threats facing the long-term survival of the forests in the Eastern Arc Mountains. Yet, our understanding of how it affects fauna, particularly birds, is still poor. A fire that originated on surrounding farmland burned approximately half of Kimboza Forest Reserve between 13 and 15 October 2010. To better understand how birds respond to fire, a short-term study of understorey bird diversity and abundance in this forest reserve was conducted by comparing burned and unburned sites twenty months post-fire. Capture rates were significantly higher at the unburned site compared to the burned site. Bird species diversity was also higher at the unburned site than at the burned site. Despite the brevity of the study, the results suggest that fire has negative effects on forest avifauna and forest fires need to be prevented at Kimboza Forest Reserve as they affect the distribution and diversity of understorey birds.	Univ Dar Es Salaam, Dept Zool & Wildlife Conservat, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania	Werema, C (reprint author), Univ Dar Es Salaam, Dept Zool & Wildlife Conservat, POB 35064, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania.	cwerema@yahoo.co.uk			1	12	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0141-6707		AFR J ECOL	Afr. J. Ecol.	2015	SEP	53	3				304	311	8		CS1FM	CCC:000361808200006					2019-04-10J	Petersen, JEBrandt, ECGrossman, JJAllen, GABenzing, DH	Petersen, John E.; Brandt, Erika C.; Grossman, Jake J.; Allen, George A.; Benzing, David H.		A controlled experiment to assess relationships between plant diversity, ecosystem function and planting treatment over a nine year period in constructed freshwater wetlands	ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Freshwater marsh, Restoration ecology, Biological diversity and ecosystem function (BEF), Shannon-Weaver diversity, Floristic quality assessment index (FQAI), Nutrient addition	FLORISTIC QUALITY ASSESSMENT, BIODIVERSITY, RESTORATION, COMMUNITY, USA, OPPORTUNITIES, NUTRIENT, DESIGN, INDEX, RIVER	Two fundamental questions for wetland restoration science are: how do early management practices affect long term plant species diversity, and how does diversity affect ecological function? Here, we report on a nine year study conducted in six replicate experimental wetland ecosystems designed to shed light on the impact of different planting treatments and nutrient enrichment on plant species diversity and on a variety of indicators of structure and function. Pairs of high-and low-intensity planting treatments were initiated with native seeds and vegetative propagules. In the high-intensity treatment, vegetative propagules that did not establish were replanted in years three and four. An unplanted treatment was seeded through natural recruitment alone. Annual inventories of the presence and percent cover of plant species were used to derive measures of native Shannon-Weaver diversity and the floristic quality assessment index (FQAI). We found that higher plant species diversity was achieved early and was sustained in planted versus unplanted wetlands. However, no differences were evident between high-and low-intensity planting treatments. Although the prevalence of dominant species shifted over time, overall measures of plant diversity did not change between early and later succession in either planted or unplanted treatments. We found no relationships between plant diversity and a variety of direct and indirect measures of ecosystem structure and function, including aquatic community metabolism, aboveground productivity, soil organic matter accumulation and nutrient concentration. Fertilizer was applied in years eight and nine to simulate nutrient loading from agricultural runoff. Plant species diversity had no detectable effects on nutrient uptake rates in response to fertilization. Conversely, fertilization did not measurably alter species diversity in the two years following addition. We conclude that early management efforts were important in achieving a sustained and resilient enhancement in plant species diversity, but that elevated biodiversity resulting from planting did not measurably alter function. We speculate that control of invasive species in all treatment groups during early years of management resulted in high species diversity levels in unplanted as well as planted groups and that species diversity levels in all wetlands were therefore well above levels at which effects of plant species diversity on ecosystem function saturate. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Petersen, JE; Brandt, EC; Allen, GA; Benzing, DH] Oberlin Coll, Dept Biol, Adam Joseph Lewis Ctr, Environm Studies Program, Oberlin, OH 44074 USA; [Grossman, JJ] Univ Minnesota, Dept Ecol Evolut & Behav, St Paul, MN 55108 USA	Petersen, JE (reprint author), Oberlin Coll, Dept Biol, Adam Joseph Lewis Ctr, Environm Studies Program, 122 Elm St, Oberlin, OH 44074 USA.	john.petersen@oberlin.edu		Grossman, Jake/0000-0001-6468-8551	5	190	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0925-8574		ECOL ENG	Ecol. Eng.	2015	SEP	82					531	541	11		CP9BQ	CCC:000360189100062					2019-04-10J	Assadi, SBKaboli, MEtemad, VKhanaposhtani, MGTohidifar, M	Assadi, Saeedeh Bani; Kaboli, Mohammad; Etemad, Vahid; Khanaposhtani, Maryam Ghadiri; Tohidifar, Mohammad		Habitat selection of cavity-nesting birds in the Hyrcanian deciduous forests of northern Iran	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Hyrcanian forests, Cavity-nesting birds, Forest structure, Habitat complexity, Snags	SPECIES RICHNESS, FRAGMENTED LANDSCAPE, BOREAL FORESTS, COSTA-RICA, COMMUNITIES, WOODPECKERS, DIVERSITY, DENSITY, INVERTEBRATES, CONSERVATION	The Hyrcanian forests of northern Iran support a great diversity of bird species. Yet, the ecological relationships of cavity-nesting birds (CNBs), the main components of forest bird communities in this area, remain unknown. We examined the importance of ecological factors in 90 study plots during the breeding season to predict the probability distribution and habitat suitability of primary cavity nesters (PCNs), secondary cavity nesters (SCNs) and weak primary cavity nesters (WPCNs). Ecological factors included forest structure, habitat complexity, geographical attributes and dead tree features. The significant habitat parameters determining the presence-absence of each CNB species were also determined. PCN richness and abundance were most influenced by the density of larger trees, snags (standing dead trees) and logs (fallen dead trees). The densities of snags, logs and larger trees and the extent of the shrub layer influenced distributions of SCNs. The Eurasian nuthatch (Sitta europaea) was the only WPCN identified, and its distribution was strongly affected by altitude and by larger snags and trees in complex habitats. Our results showed that CNB species could be classified in three groups: (1) species dependent on mature forests, (2) species dependent on younger forests and (3) species adaptable to different forest stages. Overall, snags and logs played vital roles in the habitat preferences of CNB communities as well as in forest structure and complexity.	[Assadi, SB; Kaboli, M; Khanaposhtani, MG] Univ Tehran, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Environm Sci, Karaj, Iran; [Etemad, V] Univ Tehran, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Forestry & Forest Econ, Karaj, Iran; [Tohidifar, M] Islamic Azad Univ, Sci & Res Branch, Environm & Energy Fac, Biodivers & Habitat Div, Tehran, Iran	Kaboli, M (reprint author), Univ Tehran, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Environm Sci, Karaj, Iran.	mkaboli@ut.ac.ir		etemad, vahid/0000-0001-6560-7653	0	21	SPRINGER JAPAN KK	TOKYO	CHIYODA FIRST BLDG EAST, 3-8-1 NISHI-KANDA, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 101-0065, JAPAN	http://www.springer.com	0912-3814		ECOL RES	Ecol. Res.	2015	SEP	30	5				889	897	9		CQ0TE	CCC:000360309300012					2019-04-10J	Zimmerman, GSSauer, JRFleming, KLink, WAGarrettson, PR	Zimmerman, Guthrie S.; Sauer, John R.; Fleming, Kathy; Link, William A.; Garrettson, Pamela R.		Combining Waterfowl and Breeding Bird Survey Data to Estimate Wood Duck Breeding Population Size in the Atlantic Flyway	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Atlantic Flyway Breeding Waterfowl Survey, Bayesian methods, breeding population, hierarchical models, North American Breeding Bird Survey, wood duck	EASTERN NORTH-AMERICA, ABUNDANCE, STATES	We combined data from the Atlantic Flyway Breeding Waterfowl Survey (AFBWS) and the North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) to estimate the number of wood ducks (Aix sponsa) in the United States portion of the Atlantic Flyway from 1993 to 2013. The AFBWS is a plot-based survey that covers most of the northern and central portions of the Flyway; when analyzed with adjustments for survey time of day effects, these data can be used to estimate population size. The BBS provides an index of wood duck abundance along roadside routes. Although factors influencing change in BBS counts over time can be controlled in BBS analysis, BBS indices alone cannot be used to derive population size estimates. We used AFBWS data to scale BBS indices for Bird Conservation Regions (BCR), basing the scaling factors on the ratio of estimated AFBWS population sizes to regional BBS indices for portions of BCRs that were common to both surveys. We summed scaled BBS results for portions of the Flyway not covered by the AFBWS with AFBWS population estimates to estimate a mean yearly total of 1,295,875 (mean 95% CI: 1,013,9401,727,922) wood ducks. Scaling factors varied among BCRs from 16.7 to 148.0; the mean scaling factor was 68.9 (mean 95% CI: 53.5-90.9). Flyway-wide, population estimates from the combined analysis were consistent with alternative estimates derived from harvest data, and also provide population estimates within states and BCRs. We recommend their use in harvest and habitat management within the Atlantic Flyway. Published 2015. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.	[Zimmerman, GS] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Migratory Bird Management, Sacramento, CA 95819 USA; [Sauer, JR; Link, WA] US Geol Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Laurel, MD 20708 USA; [Fleming, K; Garrettson, PR] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Migratory Bird Management, Laurel, MD 20708 USA	Zimmerman, GS (reprint author), US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Migratory Bird Management, 3020 State Univ Dr East,Modoc Hall,Suite 2007, Sacramento, CA 95819 USA.	guthrie_zimmerman@fws.gov			1	37	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2015	SEP	79	7				1051	1061	11		CP8QL	CCC:000360159100003					2019-04-10J	Kang, WMinor, ESPark, CRLee, D	Kang, Wanmo; Minor, Emily S.; Park, Chan-Ryul; Lee, Dowon		Effects of habitat structure, human disturbance, and habitat connectivity on urban forest bird communities	URBAN ECOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Avian diversity, Human disturbance, Management practices, Urban forests, Urbanization	FRAGMENTED LANDSCAPE, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPE, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY, PATCHES, AVAILABILITY, ABUNDANCE, VARIABLES, RICHNESS	As urbanization accelerates, urban biodiversity conservation is becoming a great concern for the maintenance of urban ecosystem functions. In particular, forest bird communities in urban areas have been recognized as a conservation target because of their functions in food webs and ecosystem services. But our understanding of which local- and landscape-scale factors influence native bird communities within urban green spaces is still insufficient to provide managers with information for effectively planning biodiversity management programs. Here we examine how local habitat characteristics, human disturbance, and habitat connectivity influence the diversity of forest bird communities in 44 small forest patches (0.5-20.0 ha) embedded in an urbanized landscape. Patch size exerted a positive influence on the diversity of most bird functional groups, and it had the greatest effects on total abundance and species richness. The second most important factor was human disturbance. Remnant patches with lower levels of human disturbance had higher diversity than newly established patches where intense human activities occurred more frequently. In addition, vegetation complexity and habitat connectivity were positively related to total species richness and abundance, respectively, but they were less important. Management strategies for the conservation of urban forest birds, therefore, should consider not only local improvements in habitat structure - through increased patch size, reduced human disturbance, and increased vegetation complexity - but also the maintenance of habitat connectivity.	[Kang, W; Lee, D] Seoul Natl Univ, Environm Planning Dept, Grad Sch Environm Studies, Seoul 151742, South Korea; [Minor, ES] Univ Illinois, Dept Biol Sci, Chicago, IL USA; [Kang, W; Park, CR] Korea Forest Res Inst, Forest Ecol Div, Seoul 130712, South Korea	Lee, D (reprint author), Seoul Natl Univ, Environm Planning Dept, Grad Sch Environm Studies, Gwanak Ro 1, Seoul 151742, South Korea.	leedw@snu.ac.kr		Minor, Emily/0000-0003-3906-3044	3	146	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	1083-8155		URBAN ECOSYST	Urban Ecosyst.	2015	SEP	18	3				857	870	14		CP6SF	CCC:000360017700012					2019-04-10J	Brown, DJFerrato, JRWhite, CJMali, IForstner, MRJSimpson, TR	Brown, Donald J.; Ferrato, Jacqueline R.; White, Clayton J.; Mali, Ivana; Forstner, Michael R. J.; Simpson, Thomas R.		Short-term changes in summer and winter resident bird communities following a high severity wildfire in a southern USA mixed pine/hardwood forest	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Fire, Loblolly pine, Lost Pines, Texas	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, FIRE SEVERITY, SIERRA-NEVADA, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, POSTFIRE MANAGEMENT, SONGBIRD RESPONSE, PRESCRIBED FIRE, CONIFER FOREST, UNITED-STATES, CONSERVATION	High severity forest fires are increasing in large areas of the southern and western United States as the climate becomes warmer and drier. Given their strong roles in ecosystem dynamics, documenting the response of bird communities to wildfires is important for improving our understanding and management of post-wildfire ecosystems. However, because wildfires are unplanned events, relatively few studies have been conducted to assess local-scale impacts on forest bird communities. In this study, we had the opportunity to use a before-after, control-impact (BACI) approach to assess the response of resident birds to high severity wildfires that occurred in the Lost Pines ecoregion of Texas in September and October 2011. We replicated a previous study using point count surveys to assess summer and winter bird community changes ca. 1 year after the wildfires. We found that total number of detected individuals did not change following the wildfires, but winter bird species richness increased in burned habitat. Changes were apparent at the foraging guild-level for the winter bird community, with an increase in aerial insectivores and decrease in bark insectivores. Summer and winter bird community composition changes were apparent at the species-level and generally agreed with species-specific habitat preferences. For example, species such as eastern bluebirds and chipping sparrows that prefer open woodlands were positively associated with burned habitat. Our results provide quantitative evidence that high severity forest fires increased habitat suitability for many resident bird species. At the landscape-scale, fire-induced increases in habitat heterogeneity could result in higher bird diversity in the Lost Pines ecoregion. We expect bird community composition will be dynamic in the Lost Pines ecoregion over the next few decades as the burned habitat continues to change through successional processes and post-fire management actions. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Brown, DJ] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Ferrato, JR] Nature Conservancy, San Antonio, TX 78215 USA; [White, CJ] Lone Star Coll, Dept Biol, Cypress, TX 77433 USA; [Mali, I; Forstner, MRJ; Simpson, TR] Texas State Univ, Dept Biol, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA	Brown, DJ (reprint author), USDA Forest Serv, Inst Appl Ecosyst Studies, Res Stn, 5985 Cty Highway K, Rhinelander, WI 54501 USA.	djb.ecology@gmail.com			1	58	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2015	AUG	350					13	21	9		CL8KP	CCC:000357223900002					2019-04-10J	Ou, GLMa, HCXu, HTang, JR	Ou, Guang-Long; Ma, Huan-Cheng; Xu, Hui; Tang, Jun-Rong		UNDERSTORY PLANT DIVERSITY IN MIXED AND PURE PLANTATIONS OF JATROPHA CURCAS VS. NATIVE VEGETATION IN THE LOWER-MIDDLE REACHES OF THE LANCANG-MEIKONG RIVER WATERSHED, CHINA	PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Understory, Plant diversity, Jatropha curcas plantation, CCA ordination, Lancang-Meikong River, China	FOREST REGENERATION, BIODIVERSITY, RESTORATION, L., PERSPECTIVES, ASSEMBLAGES, OPPORTUNITY, MANAGEMENT, HABITAT, LANDS	22 plots at the Xiaoheijiang base, located in the lower-middle reaches of the Lancang-Meikong River in China, were investigated to analyze the understory biodiversity of Jatropha curcas plantations. Two kinds of mixed modes of J. curcas (mixed plantation with Macadamia integrifolia and mixed plantation with shrub species) and a pure plantation of J. curcas were planted, while the native vegetation served as a control. The plots were distributed along the gradients of forest management, succession and elevation by CCA analysis. Species richness was not significantly different for the different types of plantation, but the evenness of species could be affected, especially for the total community and the understory by planting J. curcas. The diversity and evenness indices of species were affected for the mixed plantation with different proportions of M. integrifolia, especially for the shrub layer, the Shannon diversity index and Pilou evenness index showed significant differences. And for the different mixed shrub species, only the Shannon diversity index and Pilou evenness index were significantly different. Finally, from the perspective of biological diversity, J.curcas plantation with shrub species would be a recommended planting model for ecological restoration in a dry-hot valley area, while J. curcas plantation with M integrifolia would be an effective planting model to balance crop yield and food security.	[Ou, GL; Ma, HC; Xu, H; Tang, JR] Southwest Forestry Univ, Key Lab State Forestry Adm Biodivers Conservat So, Kunming 650224, Peoples R China	Xu, H (reprint author), Southwest Forestry Univ, Key Lab State Forestry Adm Biodivers Conservat So, Kunming 650224, Peoples R China.	zyxy213@126.com			1	8	PAKISTAN BOTANICAL SOC	KARACHI	DEPT OF BOTANY UNIV KARACHI, 32 KARACHI, PAKISTAN		0556-3321		PAK J BOT	Pak. J. Bot.	2015	AUG	47	4				1391	1398	8		CV1EO	CCC:000363996600024					2019-04-10J	Stephens, JLAusprey, IJSeavy, NEAlexander, JD	Stephens, Jaime L.; Ausprey, Ian J.; Seavy, Nathaniel E.; Alexander, John D.		Fire severity affects mixed broadleaf-conifer forest bird communities: Results for 9 years following fire	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bird density, community composition, fire severity, guilds, vegetation, wildfire	FUEL-REDUCTION TREATMENTS, WESTERN UNITED-STATES, EVERGREEN FOREST, SOUTHWEST OREGON, PRONE FORESTS, BURN SEVERITY, VEGETATION, CONSERVATION, REGENERATION, SUCCESSION	Wildfire is an important disturbance regime that can structure wildlife communities and their habitats for many years. Using a before-after-control-impact framework, we evaluated the effect of the Quartz Fire on a mixed broadleaf-conifer forest and associated bird community in southwestern Oregon, USA, over 10 yr. To assess whether fire severity explained changes better than simply whether an area was burned, we used a tiered sampling approach by comparing unburned control points with either all burned points combined (burned) or those same points partitioned by severity level (low, moderate, high). As expected, overall tree cover decreased while cover of shrubs increased in response to greater fire severity. This pattern was most pronounced in high-severity areas, where tree cover declined by 40% and remained depressed, but shrub cover recovered from 10% the year following fire to 75% by year 6. Ordinations of bird species density showed turnover in community composition in all burned areas combined, as well as in moderate-severity areas, shifting to a shrub-associated community 9 yr postfire. For individual species, annual density variations were best explained by fire for 14 of 37 species, with fire severity providing the best-fitting model for 7 species. Of those 7 species, 3 declined and 4 increased with greater severity. When grouped into guilds, flycatching foragers and shrub nesters increased with greater fire severity. Our results illustrate the importance of mixed-severity wildfire in creating diverse vegetation structure and composition that supports distinct bird communities for at least a decade following fire.	[Stephens, JL; Ausprey, IJ; Alexander, JD] Klamath Bird Observ, Ashland, OR 97520 USA; [Ausprey, IJ] Univ Florida, Florida Museum Nat Hist, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Ausprey, IJ] Univ Florida, Dept Biol, Gainesville, FL USA; [Seavy, NE] Point Blue Conservat Sci, Petaluma, CA USA	Stephens, JL (reprint author), Klamath Bird Observ, Ashland, OR 97520 USA.	jlh@klamathbird.org			3	38	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2015	AUG	117	3				430	446	17		CP2WR	CCC:000359738900011					2019-04-10J	Forcey, GMThogmartin, WELinz, GMMckann, PCCrimmins, SM	Forcey, Greg M.; Thogmartin, Wayne E.; Linz, George M.; Mckann, Patrick C.; Crimmins, Shawn M.		Spatially explicit modeling of blackbird abundance in the Prairie Pothole Region	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bayesian, blackbirds, climate, crop damage, hierarchical models, landscape, MCMC, North American Breeding Bird Survey, Prairie Pothole Region, relative abundance, weather	BREEDING BIRD SURVEY, RED-WINGED BLACKBIRDS, LAND-COVER DATA, UNITED-STATES, HIERARCHICAL ANALYSIS, CERULEAN WARBLERS, HABITAT SELECTION, AVIAN ABUNDANCE, LANDSCAPE-SCALE, WETLAND BIRDS	Knowledge of factors influencing animal abundance is important to wildlife biologists developing management plans. This is especially true for economically important species such as blackbirds (Icteridae), which cause more than $100 million in crop damages annually in the United States. Using data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey, the National Land Cover Dataset, and the National Climatic Data Center, we modeled effects of regional environmental variables on relative abundance of 3 blackbird species (red-winged blackbird, Agelaius phoeniceus; yellow-headed blackbird, Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus; common grackle, Quiscalus quiscula) in the Prairie Pothole Region of the central United States. We evaluated landscape covariates at 3 logarithmically related spatial scales (1,000ha, 10,000ha, and 100,000ha) and modeled weather variables at the 100,000-ha scale. We constructed models a priori using information from published habitat associations. We fit models with WinBUGS using Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques. Both landscape and weather variables contributed strongly to predicting blackbird relative abundance (95% credibility interval did not overlap 0). Variables with the strongest associations with blackbird relative abundance were the percentage of wetland area and precipitation amount from the year before bird surveys were conducted. The influence of spatial scale appeared smallmodels with the same variables expressed at different scales were often in the best model subset. This large-scale study elucidated regional effects of weather and landscape variables, suggesting that management strategies aimed at reducing damages caused by these species should consider the broader landscape, including weather effects, because such factors may outweigh the influence of localized conditions or site-specific management actions. The regional species distributional models we developed for blackbirds provide a tool for understanding these broader landscape effects and guiding wildlife management practices to areas that are optimally beneficial. Published 2015. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.	[Forcey, GM] N Dakota State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Fargo, ND 58105 USA; [Thogmartin, WE; Mckann, PC; Crimmins, SM] US Geol Survey, Upper Midwest Environm Sci Ctr, La Crosse, WI 54603 USA; [Linz, GM] USDA, Natl Wildlife Res Ctr, Bismarck, ND 58501 USA	Forcey, GM (reprint author), Normandeau Associates, 102 NE 10th Ave, Gainesville, FL 32601 USA.	research@gregforcey.com	Thogmartin, Wayne/A-4461-2008	Thogmartin, Wayne/0000-0002-2384-4279	1	26	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2015	AUG	79	6				1022	1033	12		CN1JX	CCC:000358177000017					2019-04-10J	Kosicki, JZStachura, KOstrowska, MRybska, E	Kosicki, Jakub Z.; Stachura, Krystyna; Ostrowska, Marta; Rybska, Eliza		Complex species distribution models of Goldcrests and Firecrests densities in Poland: are remote sensing-based predictors sufficient?	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Firecrest, Forest stand structure, Goldcrest, Habitat selection, Species' distribution models	HABITAT SELECTION, BIRD COMMUNITIES, REGULUS-REGULUS, FOREST, CONSERVATION, SCALE, FRAGMENTATION, LANDSCAPE, WOODPECKERS, ABUNDANCE	Species distribution models should identify ecological requirements of species and predict their spatial density. However, data from remote sensing sources are often used alone as predictors in modelling distributions. Such data will only produce accurate models if features that are distinguishable by remote sensing are a good match to the environmental traits that delineate habitat requirements. Both the Goldcrest Regulus regulus and the Firecrest Regulus ignicapilla respond to complex features of habitats that are not described by simple remote sensing data. We tested the usefulness of remote sensing data as a predictor for two Regulus species according to data from 970 study plots sized 1 x 1 km. Predictors were aggregated using the PCAs and related to the Hayne estimator of species density using GAMs. The models based on both remote sensing data and detailed environmental data proved to be better than the model based only on remote sensing data and/or detailed forest structure data. The Goldcrest reached the highest density in areas with a high share of old spruce-dominated forests with a substantial share of the fir, avoiding the pine, and it preferred forests with a low number of tree species. In turn, the Firecrest favoured old forests, dominated by the spruce and the beech, with an admixture of single old fir and larch trees, avoiding the pine, and preferring forests with a high number of tree species. We suggest using not only free data sources, but also more detailed data containing thorough information on forest inventory derived from ground measurements.	[Kosicki, JZ] Univ Presov, Fac Humanities & Nat Sci, Dept Ecol, Lab & Museum Evolutionary Ecol, Presov 08116, Slovakia; [Kosicki, JZ; Ostrowska, M] Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Fac Biol, Dept Avian Biol & Ecol, PL-61614 Poznan, Poland; [Stachura, K] Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Fac Biol, Lab Biol Spatial Informat, PL-61614 Poznan, Poland; [Rybska, E] Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Fac Biol, Dept Nat Educ & Conservat, PL-61614 Poznan, Poland	Kosicki, JZ (reprint author), Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Fac Biol, Dept Avian Biol & Ecol, Umultowska 89, PL-61614 Poznan, Poland.	kubako@amu.edu.pl		Rybska, Eliza/0000-0003-2778-1313; Kosicki, Jakub/0000-0002-9044-7775	0	26	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0912-3814		ECOL RES	Ecol. Res.	2015	JUL	30	4				625	638	14		CM4TY	CCC:000357679000009		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Kentie, RBoth, CHooijmeijer, JCEWPiersma, T	Kentie, Rosemarie; Both, Christiaan; Hooijmeijer, Jos C. E. W.; Piersma, Theunis		Management of modern agricultural landscapes increases nest predation rates in Black-tailed Godwits Limosa limosa	IBIS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	agricultural intensification, facilitation, grassland management, mowing, nest survival, predation, shorebird	LAPWING VANELLUS-VANELLUS, AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, SURVIVAL ESTIMATION, BREEDING WADERS, NETHERLANDS, CHICKS, BIRDS, CONSERVATION, POPULATIONS	Effective conservation of endangered species requires a solid understanding of the demographic causes of population change. Bird populations breeding on agricultural grasslands have declined because their preferred habitat of herb-rich meadows has been replaced by grassland monocultures. The timing of agricultural activities in these monocultural grasslands is critical, as they often coincide with the nesting phase of breeding birds. Here, we aim to identify the effect of habitat management and targeted nest protection on nest survival of Black-tailed Godwits Limosa limosa in the Netherlands, a population that has shown a 70% reduction in breeding population size since the 1970s. To protect nests in monocultures from destruction, farmers are paid to either delay mowing or leave a patch of unmown grass around the nest, a patch which in practice varied in size. In herb-rich meadows, which are typically managed for bird conservation purposes, mowing occurs after hatching. Nest survival declined as the season advanced, more steeply on monocultures than on meadows. Targeted nest protection was only partially successful, as nest predation was considerably higher on mown grassland monocultures with small unmown patches around the nest than in mown monocultures with large unmown patches and in unmown fields. Increased predator densities over the years have been suggested as an important cause of the trend towards lower nest survival, but here we show that nest survival was higher on herb-rich meadows than on monocultures, and similar to the 1980s. It thus seems that increased predator densities are an increased threat during the egg stage only if habitat quality is low. High-quality habitat in the form of herb-rich meadows therefore provides a degree of protection against predators.	[Kentie, R; Both, C; Hooijmeijer, JCEW; Piersma, T] Univ Groningen, Groningen Inst Evolutionary Life Sci GELIFES, Conservat Ecol Grp, NL-9700 CC Groningen, Netherlands; [Piersma, T] NIOZ Royal Netherlands Inst Sea Res, Dept Marine Ecol, NL-1790 AB Den Burg, Netherlands	Kentie, R (reprint author), Univ Groningen, Groningen Inst Evolutionary Life Sci GELIFES, Conservat Ecol Grp, POB 11103, NL-9700 CC Groningen, Netherlands.	r.kentie@rug.nl	Both, Christiaan/E-6459-2011; Kentie, Rosemarie/	Kentie, Rosemarie/0000-0001-7050-9265	1	61	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0019-1019		IBIS	Ibis	2015	JUL	157	3				614	625	12		CL1KC	CCC:000356700500016					2019-04-10J	Mero, TOLontay, LLengyel, S	Mero, Thomas Oliver; Lontay, Laszlo; Lengyel, Szabolcs		Habitat management varying in space and time: the effects of grazing and fire management on marshland birds	JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Habitat diversity, Habitat heterogeneity, Hortobagy National Park, Intermediate disturbance hypothesis, Mosaic vegetation, Salt marsh	GREAT REED WARBLER, GRASSLAND RESTORATION, LAKE VELENCE, ACROCEPHALUS-ARUNDINACEUS, PHRAGMITES-AUSTRALIS, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, BREEDING SUCCESS, PASSERINE BIRDS, WATER-STRESS, WETLAND	Freshwater wetlands and marshes with extensive reed beds are important hotspots of biological diversity, but in the absence of proper management, they are subject to biotic homogenisation. We assessed the impact of spatiotemporally variable management by cattle grazing (for 4 years) and late-summer burning (1 or 3 years before the study) on both songbirds and non-passerines in a previously homogeneous reed bed. We surveyed birds using a combination of line transects and point counts in a quasi-experimental design comprising six treatment levels. Management increased both the diversity of marsh habitats and the diversity of bird species. The species richness and abundance of non-passerines (ducks and geese, wading birds, gulls and terns, rails, coots and grebes) was higher in recently burned than in unburned or old-burned patches. Species richness of farmland songbirds was higher in grazed than in non-grazed patches, and the richness and abundance of reed songbirds was higher in unburned, old-burned, and grazed patches than in recently burned patches. Total Shannon diversity and evenness of birds was lowest in areas with the most intensive treatment (patches grazed and twice-burned), whereas Simpson diversity was highest in these areas. Non-managed patches had fewer species and individuals of all groups except reed songbirds. The proportion of old reed was low in recently burned and grazed patches, and was similarly high in all other treatment areas. No other property of reed stands was influenced by management, and both the allocation and the effect of management were independent of water level. Spatiotemporally variable management by cattle grazing and late-summer burning may thus simultaneously benefit several groups of birds. The effect of burning alone disappeared in 3 years, even in the presence of grazing; thus it must be repeated every 2-3 years. We conclude that both management actions are necessary to establish and maintain highly diverse habitats for marshland bird communities.	[Mero, TO] Nat Protect & Study Soc NATURA, Sombor 25000, Serbia; [Lontay, L] Aggtelek Natl Pk Directorate, H-3758 Josvafo, Hungary; [Lengyel, S] Hungarian Acad Sci, Danube Res Inst, Dept Tisza River Res, Ctr Ecol Res, H-4026 Debrecen, Hungary	Mero, TO (reprint author), Nat Protect & Study Soc NATURA, Milana Rakica 20, Sombor 25000, Serbia.	thomas.oliver.mero@gmail.com; bodrogzug@gmail.com; lengyel.szabolcs@okologia.mta.hu	Mero, Thomas/F-2634-2016	Mero, Thomas/0000-0003-0065-8489	5	83	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0021-8375		J ORNITHOL	J. Ornithol.	2015	JUL	156	3				579	590	12		CK7WS	CCC:000356447100003					2019-04-10J	Vindstad, OPLJepsen, JUIms, RA	Vindstad, Ole Petter Laksforsmo; Jepsen, Jane Uhd; Ims, Rolf Anker		Resistance of a sub-arctic bird community to severe forest damage caused by geometrid moth outbreaks	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Disturbance, Mountain birch, Operophtera, Epirrita, Transect, Hierarchical model	SPECIES RICHNESS, CLIMATE-CHANGE, DYNAMICS, DEFOLIATION, IMPACTS, FRAGMENTATION, DISTURBANCE, DIVERSITY, PHENOLOGY, EXPANSION	Outbreaks by geometrid moths periodically cause mass mortality of trees and state changes in understorey vegetation in sub-arctic mountain birch forest in northern Scandinavia. In order to assess the short-term impacts of such disturbance on forest bird communities, we took bird censuses in forest where almost all birch trees had been killed by moth outbreaks 2-4 years before the study and in undamaged forest. The study was repeated in two locations (Kirkenes and Tana) with contrasting forest structure and fragmentation. Using a hierarchical community model, we show that the total abundance of birds in Kirkenes was only about 25 % lower in damaged than undamaged forest and that species richness differed even less between the two forest types. Meanwhile, neither bird abundance nor species richness differed between damaged and undamaged forest in Tana. The observed patterns in abundance were mainly driven by a few very common species. Only a single species showed indication of being more abundant in damaged forest. Thus, our findings indicate that bird communities in sub-arctic mountain birch forest have a high degree of resistance to forest damage caused by moth outbreaks. We suggest that bird populations in outbreak-affected forest may be maintained by surviving trees and by standing dead tree trunks, which help maintain the vertical structure of the forest habitat. The fact that many of the studied bird species are habitat generalists may also explain their apparently weak responses to the damage caused by the outbreak. Our results do not point towards forest damage caused by moth outbreaks as a major driver of change in bird communities in the study system, although more long-term research is needed to substantiate this conclusion.	[Vindstad, OPL; Ims, RA] Univ Tromso, Dept Arctic & Marine Biol, N-9037 Tromso, Norway; [Jepsen, JU] Norwegian Inst Nat Res, Fram Ctr, N-9296 Tromso, Norway	Vindstad, OPL (reprint author), Univ Tromso, Dept Arctic & Marine Biol, N-9037 Tromso, Norway.	ole.p.vindstad@uit.no		Vindstad, Ole Petter/0000-0003-2483-2568	0	19	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	1612-4669		EUR J FOREST RES	Eur. J. For. Res.	2015	JUL	134	4				725	736	12		CJ2MC	CCC:000355317900012		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Lopez-Pomares, ALopez-Iborra, GMMartin-Cantarino, C	Lopez-Pomares, A.; Lopez-Iborra, G. M.; Martin-Cantarino, C.		Irrigation canals in a semi-arid agricultural landscape surrounded by wetlands: Their role as a habitat for birds during the breeding season	JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Irrigation canals, Bird community, Semi-arid agrarian ecosystems, Reed, Mediterranean water bodies, Hierarchical partitioning analysis	REED WARBLER, PASSERINE BIRDS, LAKE VELENCE, MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION, INVERTEBRATES, REQUIREMENTS, ARCHIPELAGO, COMMUNITIES, HUNGARY	Traditional water supply systems in semi-arid agrarian ecosystems, mainly irrigation canals, contribute to the diversity of the landscape and influence the composition of species. To evaluate their effect on bird communities in the breeding season, we selected a rural area in southeastern Spain, where an intricate and extensive network of irrigation canals and cultivated areas is located between two wetlands declared as Natural Parks. Birds were counted at representative points distributed throughout the canal network at which we recorded several variables related to the physical features, the vertical and horizontal structure of associated vegetation, reed development (Phragmites australis) and land use in the neighboring areas. We detected 37 bird species, most of which were also breeding in the wetlands nearby. We used Hierarchical Partitioning analyses to identify the variables most strongly related to the probability of the presence of selected species and species richness. Vegetation cover and height close to the canals, together with reed development, were the most important types of variables explaining species presence and richness. We found that current management practices for reeds in canals are not well-suited for biodiversity conservation. We therefore propose alternatives that could be implemented in the area in cooperation with stakeholders. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Lopez-Pomares, A; Lopez-Iborra, GM; Martin-Cantarino, C] Univ Alicante, Dept Ecol, Inst Multidisciplinar Estudios Medioambientales I, E-03080 Alicante, Spain	Lopez-Pomares, A (reprint author), Univ Alicante, Dept Ecol, Inst Multidisciplinar Estudios Medioambientales I, Apartado 99, E-03080 Alicante, Spain.	a.lopez.pomares@gmail.com			2	59	ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	LONDON	24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND	http://www.apnet.com	0140-1963		J ARID ENVIRON	J. Arid. Environ.	2015	JUL	118					28	36	9		CE9SF	CCC:000352183000004					2019-04-10J	Everitts, JLBenson, TJBednarz, JCAnich, NM	Everitts, Jeremy L.; Benson, Thomas J.; Bednarz, James C.; Anich, Nicholas M.		Effects of Prescribed Burning on Swainson's Warbler Home-Range Size and Habitat Use	WILDLIFE SOCIETY BULLETIN			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Arkansas, fire, habitat use, home range, kernel, Limnothlypis swainsonii, prescribed burning, radiotelemetry, space use, Swainson's warbler	BREEDING-BIRD POPULATIONS, EASTERN NORTH-AMERICA, HARDWOOD FOREST, FIRE, DISTURBANCE, CONSERVATION, ARKANSAS, TRANSMITTERS, COMMUNITIES, PASSERINES	Prescribed fire is an often-used tool for managing or manipulating wildlife habitats. However, studies on the effects of prescribed fire on conservation-priority songbirds are limited. We examined effects of low-intensity prescribed burns on vegetation structure and composition, and on habitat use of 45 radiotagged male Swainson's warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii) during the 2008 and 2009 breeding seasons in the St. Francis National Forest in eastern Arkansas, USA. We found that home ranges in areas with extensive burning (>50% burned) were significantly larger ((x) over bar =14.4 ha, SE=3.5, n=13) than home ranges in areas with partial burning (<50% burned; <(x)over bar>=6.1 ha, SE=1.3, n=5) and unburned home ranges ((x) over bar =8.5 ha, SE=1.1, n=27). Burning decreased understory vegetation density, leaf-litter depth, and cover, but had no effect on density of woody stems, including giant cane (Arundinaria gigantean; a native bamboo that is thought to benefit from fire). Swainson's warblers did not completely avoid burned regions of their home ranges, but individuals selected dense understory habitats in burned and unburned areas, and burning appeared to intensify selection for areas with less-variable litter depth. Low-intensity burning appeared to have minimal impacts on Swainson's warbler habitat use, but did result in increased home-range size, possibly to compensate for burn-impacted habitat patches and to enable warblers to acquire adequate food resources. Based on our findings, we suggest that high-intensity fires or frequent burning could have significant negative impacts on Swainson's warbler habitat. Also, prescribed burning alone was not sufficient to restore remnant populations of cane or a dense understory. We suggest management involving canopy openings in combination with low-intensity fire may more likely promote the development of dense understory habitat, including giant cane preferred by Swainson's warblers and other understory-dependent birds. (C) 2015 The Wildlife Society.	[Everitts, JL] Arkansas State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Jonesboro, AR 72467 USA; [Benson, TJ] Univ Illinois, Illinois Nat Hist Survey, Prairie Res Inst, Champaign, IL 61820 USA; [Bednarz, JC] Univ N Texas, Dept Biol Sci, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Anich, NM] Wisconsin Dept Nat Resources, Ashland, WI 54806 USA	Everitts, JL (reprint author), Natl Wild Turkey Federat, 625 Bonnie Lane, Conway, AR 72034 USA.	jleveritts@gmail.com		Anich, Nicholas/0000-0002-5655-9175	3	25	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1938-5463		WILDLIFE SOC B	Wildl. Soc. Bull.	2015	JUN	39	2				292	300	9		CL3VR	CCC:000356879900009					2019-04-10J	Little, ITHockey, PARJansen, R	Little, Ian T.; Hockey, Philip A. R.; Jansen, Raymond		Assessing biodiversity integrity for the conservation of grazed and burnt grassland systems: avian field metabolic rates as a rapid assessment tool	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Birds, Conservation, Fire, Nesting success, Indicator, Field metabolic rate	SPECIES RICHNESS, LAND-USE, SOUTH-AFRICA, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, SURVIVAL ESTIMATION, BIRD COMMUNITIES, INTACTNESS INDEX, HABITAT FEATURES, NEST PREDATION	The South African grassland system is home to over 3,300 plant species, 15 of the country's 34 endemic mammal species, 12 of the 40 endemic bird species (four of which are globally threatened) and five RAMSAR wetland sites. To assess and address the ecological integrity of farmed grasslands we used process-oriented techniques, including nesting success and field metabolic rates (FMR) of birds, and an adaptation of the multi-taxon biodiversity intactness index (BII) using plant, arthropod and bird diversity data which is a comprehensive tool for assessing ecological integrity using multiple taxonomic groups. Current pastoral management practices have a significant detrimental effect on avian abundance, species richness, nest density and fledgling output. Overall energy turnover and BII values confirm the importance of conserved areas for birds in moist highland grassland systems and support the need for further conservation efforts in grassland systems by both private landowners and reserve managers. Findings based on both avian FMRs and the BII in this study were found to be comparable, lending support to the use of FMR as a rapid assessment technique for assessing ecosystem integrity for future studies of this nature. Scenarios of potential biodiversity improvement with changes in fire management regimes are also presented.	[Little, IT] Univ Cape Town, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Hockey, PAR; Jansen, R] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Environm Water & Earth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa	Little, IT (reprint author), 3 Sangster Rd, ZA-3290 Howick, South Africa.	ianl@ewt.org.za			3	43	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2015	JUN	24	6				1443	1471	29		CJ8KM	CCC:000355749100009					2019-04-10J	Crosby, ADElmore, RDLeslie, DMWill, RE	Crosby, Andrew D.; Elmore, R. Dwayne; Leslie, David M., Jr.; Will, Rodney E.		Looking beyond rare species as umbrella species: Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) and conservation of grassland and shrubland birds	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Avian community, Bell's vireo, Dicksissel, Bewick's Wren, Grassland birds, Habitat restoration	CAPERCAILLIE TETRAO-UROGALLUS, POPULATION, MANAGEMENT, LANDSCAPE, RESTORATION, OCCUPANCY, FORESTS, FLAGSHIPS, COMMUNITY, SELECTION	Changes in land use and land cover throughout the eastern half of North America have caused substantial declines in populations of birds that rely on grassland and shrubland vegetation types, including socially and economically important game birds such as the Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus; hereafter bobwhites). As much attention is focused on habitat management and restoration for bobwhites, they may act as an umbrella species for other bird species with similar habitat requirements. We quantified the relationship of bobwhites to the overall bird community and evaluated the potential for bobwhites to act as an umbrella species for grassland and shrubland birds. We monitored bobwhite presence and bird community composition within 31 sample units on selected private lands in the south-central United States from 2009 to 2011. Bobwhites were strongly associated with other grassland and shrubland birds and were a significant positive predictor for 9 species. Seven of these, including Bell's Vireo (Vireo bell), Dicksissel (Spiza americana), and Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), are listed as species of conservation concern. Species richness and occupancy probability of grassland and shrubland birds were higher relative to the overall bird community in sample units occupied by bobwhites. Our results show that bobwhites can act as an umbrella species for grassland and shrubland birds, although the specific species in any given situation will depend on region and management objectives. These results suggest that efficiency in conservation funding can be increased by using public interest in popular game species to leverage resources to meet multiple conservation objectives. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Crosby, AD; Elmore, RD; Will, RE] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Leslie, DM] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, US Geol Survey, Oklahoma Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA	Crosby, AD (reprint author), Michigan State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, 480 Wilson Rd,Room 13 Nat Resources Bldg, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA.	crosbya1@msu.edu; dwayne.elmore@okstate.edu; cleslie@usgs.gov; rodney.will@okstate.edu	Will, Rodney/G-8111-2011		6	69	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2015	JUN	186					233	240	8		CI8ZX	CCC:000355061300027					2019-04-10J	Czeszczewik, DZub, KStanski, TSahel, MKapusta, AWalankiewicz, W	Czeszczewik, Dorota; Zub, Karol; Stanski, Tomasz; Sahel, Mustapha; Kapusta, Anna; Walankiewicz, Wieslaw		Effects of forest management on bird assemblages in the Bialowieza Forest, Poland	IFOREST-BIOGEOSCIENCES AND FORESTRY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bialowieza Forest, Breeding Bird Communities, Forest Biodiversity, Primeval Stands, Forest Management	PRIMEVAL TEMPERATE FOREST, WOODPECKER DENDROCOPOS-LEUCOTOS, OLD-GROWTH, AVIAN COMMUNITIES, CONSERVATION, STANDS, BIODIVERSITY, TREE, INVERTEBRATES, DIVERSITY	We examined the effects of different intensities of forest management practices on bird communities in the Bialowieza Forest, eastern Poland. Stands managed for more than 100 years (cutting, planting, removal of dead wood) and stands that were partially protected in nature reserves (sporadic sanitary cutting, removal of dead wood until 2008) were compared with unmanaged stands in the Bialowieza National Park by surveying the bird community during three breeding seasons (2010-2012). Surveys were conducted within three forest habitats: spruce-pine (Pino-Quercetum), lime-hornbeam (Tilio-Carpinetum) and ash-alder (Fraxino-Alnetum). Results showed that habitat structure significantly affected the avian community. The basal area of live trees had a positive effect on abundance of birds, while the density of live trees had negative significant effect on bird abundance and species diversity. We also found significantly lower abundance of insectivorous birds and cavity-nesters in managed compared with unmanaged stands. Birds' assembly in the spruce-pine and ash-alder stands were most sensitive to management. These results show that management can be used to sustain bird communities, including species of conservation concern.	[Czeszczewik, D; Stanski, T; Kapusta, A; Walankiewicz, W] Siedlce Univ Nat Sci & Humanities, Dept Zool, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland; [Zub, K] Polish Acad Sci, Mammal Res Inst, PL-17230 Bialowieza, Poland	Czeszczewik, D (reprint author), Siedlce Univ Nat Sci & Humanities, Dept Zool, Prusa 12, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland.	dorota.czeszczewik@uph.edu.pl		Walankiewicz, Wieslaw/0000-0002-9583-1856; Stanski, Tomasz/0000-0003-4271-1161; Zub, Karol/0000-0001-7235-2206; Czeszczewik, Dorota/0000-0003-0523-1417	3	19	SISEF-SOC ITALIANA SELVICOLTURA ECOL FORESTALE	POTENZA	DEPT PROD VEGETALE, VIA ATENEO LUCANO 10, POTENZA, 85100, ITALY	http://www.sisef.it	1971-7458		IFOREST	iForest	2015	JUN	8					377	385	9		CO2DE	CCC:000358964700001		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Taillie, PJPeterson, MNMoorman, CE	Taillie, Paul J.; Peterson, M. Nils; Moorman, Christopher E.		The relative importance of multiscale factors in the distribution of Bachman's Sparrow and the implications for ecosystem conservation	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Bachman's Sparrow, dispersal, fire, fragmentation, herbaceous cover, landscape, patch	RED-COCKADED WOODPECKER, AKAIKES INFORMATION CRITERION, LONGLEAF PINE ECOSYSTEM, PRESCRIBED FIRE, FOREST FRAGMENTATION, BREEDING BIRDS, HOME-RANGE, HABITAT, RESTORATION, MANAGEMENT	Recent research has shown that landscape-level changes, namely habitat loss and fragmentation, can play an important role in determining the distribution of species across a variety of ecological systems. However, the influence of these large-scale factors in relation to small-scale factors, such as local vegetation structure or composition, is poorly understood. We used Bachman's Sparrow (Peucaea aestivalis) as a surrogate species to measure the relative importance of local vegetation and large-scale habitat distribution in the Onslow Bight region of North Carolina, USA. We conducted repeated point counts at 232 points within 111 habitat patches between April 10 and July 20, 2011. We then fit a series of single-season occupancy models, including both local and landscape-level predictors, to identify those that best explained the distribution of Bachman's Sparrows. We documented a strong response to vegetation characteristics best maintained via prescribed fire, but the most influential predictor of Bachman's Sparrow occupancy was the amount of habitat within 3 km. Specifically, the probability of Bachman's Sparrow occurrence was close to zero in landscapes comprised of <10% habitat, regardless of local vegetation conditions. Our results illustrate the strong influence of habitat loss on Bachman's Sparrow and likely on other members of this community, many of which are of high conservation concern.	[Taillie, PJ; Peterson, MN; Moorman, CE] N Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA	Taillie, PJ (reprint author), N Carolina State Univ, Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA.	paul_taillie@ncsu.edu			3	36	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2015	MAY	117	2				137	146	10		CJ2LG	CCC:000355315500001					2019-04-10J	Rota, CTRumble, MALehman, CPKesler, DCMillspaugh, JJ	Rota, Christopher T.; Rumble, Mark A.; Lehman, Chad P.; Kesler, Dylan C.; Millspaugh, Joshua J.		Apparent foraging success reflects habitat quality in an irruptive species, the Black-backed Woodpecker	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bark beetles, disturbance, ephemeral habitat, foraging, wood-boring beetles	MOUNTAIN PINE-BEETLE, SOUTH-DAKOTA, PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, PONDEROSA PINE, NORTH-AMERICA, BOREAL FOREST, FIRE, HILLS, PATTERNS	Dramatic fluctuations in food resources are a key feature of many habitats, and many species have evolved a movement strategy to exploit food resources that are unpredictable in space and time. The availability of food resources may be a particularly strong determinant of habitat quality for irruptive bird species. We studied the apparent foraging success of Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus), an irruptive species that responds opportunistically to pulsed food resources in burned forests and mountain pine beetle (MPB) infestations. Prior investigations revealed that the highest population growth rates of Black-backed Woodpeckers occurred in habitat created by summer wildfire, with intermediate population growth rates in MPB infestations, and the lowest population growth rates in habitats created by prescribed fire in fall. We tested whether apparent foraging success was associated with known habitat quality in order to assess the potential for food availability to regulate population growth. We counted the number of successfully captured wood-boring beetle larvae and "small'' prey on each tree that a Black-backed Woodpecker used for foraging and modeled these counts as a function of habitat, tree diameter, number of years postfire, and tree disturbance category. Total apparent foraging success (the sum of observed captures of wood-boring beetle larvae and small prey per tree) did not vary across habitats, but woodpeckers foraging in habitats created by summer wildfire were expected to capture 2.2 and 2.0 times more wood-boring beetles than woodpeckers foraging in habitats created by fall prescribed fire and MPB infestations, respectively. These results suggest that the availability of food resources may contribute to population regulation in this irruptive species. Furthermore, population growth in irruptive species may be highly sensitive to the availability of preferred food resources. Forests recently burned by summer wildfires provide relatively abundant food resources for Black-backed Woodpeckers and represent high-quality habitat for this species of conservation concern.	[Rota, CT; Kesler, DC; Millspaugh, JJ] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Rumble, MA] Rocky Mt Res Stn, Forest & Grasslands Res Lab, Rapid City, SD USA; [Lehman, CP] South Dakota Dept Game Fish & Parks, Custer, SD USA	Rota, CT (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	rotact@missouri.edu		Rota, Christopher/0000-0001-9272-4687	0	23	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2015	MAY	117	2				178	191	14		CJ2LG	CCC:000355315500004					2019-04-10J	Little, ITHockey, PARJansen, R	Little, Ian T.; Hockey, Philip A. R.; Jansen, Raymond		Predation drives nesting success in moist highland grasslands: the importance of maintaining vegetation cover for bird conservation	OSTRICH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	fire, grassland, grazing, nest success, pipit, predation	REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, SOUTH-AFRICA, SEASONAL DECLINE, SPECIES RICHNESS, SURVIVAL ESTIMATION, COMMUNITY RESPONSE, BREEDING ECOLOGY, SITE SELECTION, HABITAT USE, LAND-USE	By focusing on process-oriented data rather than inventory-type data, this study provides a robust understanding of the effects of agricultural management on grassland bird reproductive output in the moist highland grasslands (MHGs) of South Africa. Four-hundred and four nests of 12 grassland-breeding bird species were monitored in five different land-use types. Survivorship was modelled using Program MARK to assess the effects of these management practices on reproductive performance. Six of the species were modelled individually to assess speciesspecific responses. Both nest-site selection and nest success were driven by vegetation structure, which in turn is driven by habitat management. There was an increase in nesting success through the season for cup (ground) nesting birds as vegetation structural complexity increased through the breeding season (September to March). Nest success was driven by predation pressure rather than food availability. Analysis of the nesting success of the Yellow-breasted Pipit Anthus chloris indicated that unconserved areas house sink populations, confirmation of which would depend on a measure of adult survival. The generalist African Pipit Anthus cinnamomeus, on the other hand, thrived in disturbed, communally grazed lands. To conserve MHG bird species, managers should maintain a mosaic of burning regimes, with the majority burning biennially or less frequently.	[Little, IT; Hockey, PAR] Univ Cape Town, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7925 Cape Town, South Africa; [Jansen, R] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Environm Water & Earth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa	Little, IT (reprint author), Endangered Wildlife Trust, Johannesburg, South Africa.	ianl@ewt.org.za		Jansen, Raymond/0000-0003-4741-3307	0	40	NATL INQUIRY SERVICES CENTRE PTY LTD	GRAHAMSTOWN	19 WORCESTER STREET, PO BOX 377, GRAHAMSTOWN 6140, SOUTH AFRICA	http://www.nisc.co.za	0030-6525		OSTRICH	Ostrich	2015	MAY	86	1-2			SI	97	111	15		CI2JB	CCC:000354571500011					2019-04-10J	Lee, ATKBarnard, PHockey, PAR	Lee, Alan T. K.; Barnard, Phoebe; Hockey, Philip A. R.		Population metrics for fynbos birds, South Africa: densities, and detection and capture rates from a Mediterranean-type ecosystem	OSTRICH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	capture rates, detection rates, fynbos birds, Mediterranean type ecosystem, population metrics	POINT COUNTS, MIST-NETS, BIODIVERSITY HOTSPOTS, RELATIVE ABUNDANCE, SPECIES RICHNESS, COSTA-RICA, PERSPECTIVES, PRODUCTIVITY, ASSEMBLAGES, VEGETATION	Estimates of bird numbers through quantification of density and range sizes are necessary for decisions regarding conservation status, yet counts of birds are often confounded by uncertainty of detection. The status of the endemic birds of the Fynbos biome is of interest due to their conservation value in a global biodiversity hotspot, the ecological services they provide, and their importance for the avitourism industry. We conducted an extensive repeated point-count survey across the Fynbos biome, South Africa, to determine probability of detection and covariates of site occupancy for 27 bird species. Detection of most species was influenced by time of day, temperature or vegetation height. Important covariates influencing site occupancy were vegetation height, altitude, time since fire and habitat type. Site occupancy for four fynbos-endemic species was positively associated with increasing altitude. We further conducted point counts and mist-netting in eastern regions of the Fynbos biome to calculate local density and standardised capture rates. A linear regression analysis showed that capture rates were a function of bird densities, but that several species were captured at higher rates than expected, notably nectarivorous species. During mist-netting a relative abundance count was conducted. We expected deviation of the fit of the regression of capture rates on relative abundance to correlate with detection probability, because we expect this index to underestimate skulking and cryptic species, but there was no correlation. Estimated species richness indices were highest for the biome-wide survey, and lowest for mist-netting due to the body size limit imposed by the capture technique. Overall, we showed that point counts are an effective method for surveying birds in the fynbos and that mist-netting can be used to create an index of relative abundance for smaller species, but can be significantly affected by net placement.	[Lee, ATK; Barnard, P] South African Natl Biodivers Inst, Kirstenbosch Res Ctr, Cape Town, South Africa; [Lee, ATK; Barnard, P; Hockey, PAR] Univ Cape Town, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, Cape Town, South Africa	Lee, ATK (reprint author), South African Natl Biodivers Inst, Kirstenbosch Res Ctr, Cape Town, South Africa.	alan.tk.lee@googlemail.com		Lee, Alan Tristram Kenneth/0000-0002-5858-9351	2	17	NATL INQUIRY SERVICES CENTRE PTY LTD	GRAHAMSTOWN	19 WORCESTER STREET, PO BOX 377, GRAHAMSTOWN 6140, SOUTH AFRICA	http://www.nisc.co.za	0030-6525		OSTRICH	Ostrich	2015	MAY	86	1-2			SI	179	187	9		CI2JB	CCC:000354571500019					2019-04-10J	Bazzi, GFoglini, CBrambilla, MSaino, NRubolini, D	Bazzi, Gaia; Foglini, Claudio; Brambilla, Mattia; Saino, Nicola; Rubolini, Diego		Habitat management effects on Prealpine grassland bird communities	ITALIAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Agricultural subsidies, grazing, Alauda arvensis, Anthus trivialis, mowing	SKYLARKS ALAUDA-ARVENSIS, LAND ABANDONMENT, FARMLAND BIRDS, AGRICULTURAL POLICY, ANTHUS-TRIVIALIS, LOW-INTENSITY, CONSERVATION, EUROPE, LANDSCAPE, CONSEQUENCES	Currently, land abandonment constitutes a serious threat for many species tied to semi-natural grasslands. In southern Europe, the conservation of many grassland bird communities largely depends on low-intensity mountain farming. In this study, we analysed the effects of the main farming practices promoting grassland maintenance, i.e. grazing and mowing, on species richness of a Prealpine grassland bird community and on the breeding densities of the two commonest grassland species, the skylark (Alauda arvensis Linnaeus, 1758) and the tree pipit (Anthus trivialis Linnaeus, 1758). The two study sites were located between 1100 and 2000m above sea level in the Italian central Prealps. Grassland species richness was positively affected by grazing, and increased with increasing distance from the nearest woodland. Skylark density was positively influenced by mowing, grassland cover extent and distance from woodland, with the latter effect occurring only at a single study site. Finally, tree pipit density was positively affected by grazing. Our findings suggest that, in order to maintain open grasslands below the natural treeline and enhance the biodiversity of grassland bird communities, grazing should be preferred over mowing. Moreover, woodland edge effects may have a negative impact on mountain grassland bird communities. Advancing woodlands and abandonment of low-intensity farming and grazing practices may therefore constitute a serious threat for open-habitat specialist bird species of the Alpine region.	[Bazzi, G; Foglini, C; Saino, N; Rubolini, D] Univ Milan, Dipartimento Biosci, I-20133 Milan, Italy; [Brambilla, M] Fdn Lombardia Ambiente, Settore Biodiversita & Aree Protette, Milan, Italy; [Brambilla, M] Museo Sci, Sez Zool Vertebrati, Florence, Italy	Bazzi, G (reprint author), Univ Milan, Dipartimento Biosci, Via Celoria 26, I-20133 Milan, Italy.	gaia.bazzi@unimi.it	Rubolini, Diego/F-2851-2011; Foglini, Claudio/; Saino, Nicola/; Brambilla, Mattia/	Rubolini, Diego/0000-0003-2703-5783; Foglini, Claudio/0000-0002-4299-9372; Saino, Nicola/0000-0002-0230-3967; Brambilla, Mattia/0000-0002-7643-4652	1	33	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandf.co.uk	1125-0003		ITAL J ZOOL	Ital. J. Zoolog.	2015	APR	82	2				251	261	11		CG7RI	CCC:000353501900014					2019-04-10J	Kelly, LTBennett, AFClarke, MFMcCarthy, MA	Kelly, Luke T.; Bennett, Andrew F.; Clarke, Michael F.; McCarthy, Michael A.		Optimal fire histories for biodiversity conservation	CONSERVATION BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biodiversity index, birds, fire mosaic, geometric mean, patch-mosaic burning, pyrodiversity, reptiles, small mammals	MANAGEMENT, MALLEE, HABITAT, SYSTEM, DISTRIBUTIONS, ASSEMBLAGES, VEGETATION, AUSTRALIA, INSIGHTS, FAUNA	Fire is used as a management tool for biodiversity conservation worldwide. A common objective is to avoid population extinctions due to inappropriate fire regimes. However, in many ecosystems, it is unclear what mix of fire histories will achieve this goal. We determined the optimal fire history of a given area for biological conservation with a method that links tools from 3 fields of research: species distribution modeling, composite indices of biodiversity, and decision science. We based our case study on extensive field surveys of birds, reptiles, and mammals in fire-prone semi-arid Australia. First, we developed statistical models of species' responses to fire history. Second, we determined the optimal allocation of successional states in a given area, based on the geometric mean of species relative abundance. Finally, we showed how conservation targets based on this index can be incorporated into a decision-making framework for fire management. Pyrodiversity per se did not necessarily promote vertebrate biodiversity. Maximizing pyrodiversity by having an even allocation of successional states did not maximize the geometric mean abundance of bird species. Older vegetation was disproportionately important for the conservation of birds, reptiles, and small mammals. Because our method defines fire management objectives based on the habitat requirements of multiple species in the community, it could be used widely to maximize biodiversity in fire-prone ecosystems.	[Kelly, LT; McCarthy, MA] Univ Melbourne, Sch Bot, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, Parkville, Vic 3010, Australia; [Bennett, AF] Deakin Univ, Landscape Ecol Res Grp, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia; [Bennett, AF] Deakin Univ, Ctr Integrat Ecol, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia; [Clarke, MF] La Trobe Univ, Dept Zool, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia	Kelly, LT (reprint author), Univ Melbourne, Sch Bot, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, Parkville, Vic 3010, Australia.	ltkelly@unimelb.edu.au		Kelly, Luke/0000-0002-3127-3111; McCarthy, Michael/0000-0003-1039-7980	5	112	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0888-8892		CONSERV BIOL	Conserv. Biol.	2015	APR	29	2				473	481	9		CD8NY	CCC:000351353400018	25163611				2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DBWood, JMcBurney, LBlair, DBanks, SC	Lindenmayer, David B.; Wood, Jeff; McBurney, Lachlan; Blair, David; Banks, Sam C.		Single large versus several small: The SLOSS debate in the context of bird responses to a variable retention logging experiment	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Forest biodiversity, Variable retention harvesting, Retention forestry, Mountain Ash forest, Management experiment, South-eastern Australia	WET EUCALYPT FOREST, HABITAT REQUIREMENTS, CENTRAL HIGHLANDS, SPECIES RICHNESS, FIRE SEVERITY, SMALL MAMMALS, BIODIVERSITY, DIVERSITY, VICTORIA, MODELS	The Variable Retention Harvest System (VRHS) is a silvicultural system designed to reduce logging impacts and enhance biodiversity conservation. VRHS has been widely applied worldwide but several important questions remain about its effectiveness for biodiversity conservation. A key issue is whether dispersed or aggregated retention is more effective for conservation, and hence what size of retained patches of forest should be maintained within logged areas. Many studies have indicated that increasing the amount of the original stand retained during harvesting increases the amount of biodiversity conserved. But in a form of the SLOSS (single large or several small areas for conservation) debate, a critical question is: does one large retained island better conserve forest biota than several small islands of the same aggregated area? We addressed this question in an experiment in the Mountain Ash (Eucalyptus regnans) forests of the Central Highlands of Victoria, south-eastern Australia. The experiment comprised seven blocks, each with four treatments - an unlogged control, a conventional 15-40 ha clearfelled area, a 15-40 ha harvest unit with a single 1.5 ha retained "island", and a 15-40 ha harvest unit with three 0.5 ha islands. A subset of the treatment plots and harvest units in our experiment were burned in a major wildfire in 2009. Given this, a subsequent further question we posed was: are there additional effects on birds resulting from logging operations that were followed by wildfires.We identified a significant gradient in species richness across treatments with lowest values in conventional clearfelled areas and highest values in unlogged controls. Unexpectedly, we identified no significant island size effects on bird species richness. We found no individual species that were significantly more likely to occur in a single large island than several small islands. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling revealed significant differences in the composition of the bird community between treatments, consistent with our findings for some of the more common species of birds. Several species were significantly less likely to be recorded in clearfelled areas, although the Flame Robin was more likely to be recorded in them. When we removed clearfelled areas from our analyses, some species were significantly less likely to occur in retained islands than unlogged controls. The application of VRHS did not appear to mediate bird responses to wildfire relative to effects for birds observed in clearfelled harvest units that were subsequently burned in 2009.Our results suggest that VRHS has positive effects on bird biota in Mountain Ash forests. However, this study found no advantage of setting aside a single large island versus several small islands within a given harvest unit for bird species richness nor the occurrence of individual bird species. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Lindenmayer, DB; Wood, J; McBurney, L; Blair, D; Banks, SC] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Terr Ecosystem Res Network, Long Term Ecol Res Network, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia	Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.	david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au	Banks, Sam/K-4907-2012; Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017	Banks, Sam/0000-0003-2415-0057; Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088	1	83	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2015	MAR	339					1	10	10		CC6ZK	CCC:000350517300001					2019-04-10J	Stirnemann, IAIkin, KGibbons, PBlanchard, WLindenmayer, DB	Stirnemann, Ingrid A.; Ikin, Karen; Gibbons, Philip; Blanchard, Wade; Lindenmayer, David B.		Measuring habitat heterogeneity reveals new insights into bird community composition	OECOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Spatial heterogeneity, Variation, Ecological traits, Fine scale, Habitat management	SPECIES-DIVERSITY, LANDSCAPE HETEROGENEITY, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, SPATIAL SCALES, CONSERVATION, FIRE, ECOSYSTEMS, RICHNESS, GRADIENT, PATTERNS	Fine-scale vegetation cover is a common variable used to explain animal occurrence, but we know less about the effects of fine-scale vegetation heterogeneity. Theoretically, fine-scale vegetation heterogeneity is an important driver of biodiversity because it captures the range of resources available in a given area. In this study we investigated how bird species richness and birds grouped by various ecological traits responded to vegetation cover and heterogeneity. We found that both fine-scale vegetation cover (of tall trees, medium-sized trees and shrubs) and heterogeneity (of tall trees, and shrubs) were important predictors of bird richness, but the direction of the response of bird richness to shrub heterogeneity differed between sites with different proportions of tall tree cover. For example, bird richness increased with shrub heterogeneity in sites with high levels of tall tree cover, but declined in sites with low levels of tall tree cover. Our findings indicated that an increase in vegetation heterogeneity will not always result in an increase in resources and niches, and associated higher species richness. We also found birds grouped by traits responded in a predictable way to vegetation heterogeneity. For example, we found small birds benefited from increased shrub heterogeneity supporting the textual discontinuity hypothesis and non-arboreal (ground or shrub) nesting species were associated with high vegetation cover (low heterogeneity). Our results indicated that focusing solely on increasing vegetation cover (e.g. through restoration) may be detrimental to particular animal groups. Findings from this investigation can help guide habitat management for different functional groups of birds.	[Stirnemann, IA; Ikin, K; Gibbons, P; Blanchard, W; Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia	Stirnemann, IA (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	ingrid.stirnemann@anu.edu.au; karen.ikin@anu.edu.au; philip.gibbons@anu.edu.au; wade.blanchard@anu.edu.au; david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au	Ikin, Karen/G-2845-2012; Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088	1	71	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0029-8549		OECOLOGIA	Oecologia	2015	MAR	177	3				733	746	14		CC0NV	CCC:000350033500011	25376157				2019-04-10J	Johnson, LKSimenstad, CA	Johnson, Laura Kathleen; Simenstad, Charles A.		Variation in the Flora and Fauna of Tidal Freshwater Forest Ecosystems Along the Columbia River Estuary Gradient: Controlling Factors in the Context of River Flow Regulation	ESTUARIES AND COASTS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AQUATIC SCIENCES	Marine & Freshwater Biology	Forested wetlands, Vegetation, Community ecology, Hydrology, Estuary	PACIFIC-NORTHWEST, COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, MARGIN VEGETATION, BREEDING BIRDS, MISSOURI RIVER, UNITED-STATES, WETLANDS, FLOODPLAIN, DYNAMICS, PATTERNS	Tidal freshwater forested wetlands are dynamic, complex ecosystems that typically occur in large, floodplain river estuaries throughout the world. The estuarine portion of the Columbia River, in the Pacific Northwest region of North America, is exceptionally large and extends from the Pacific Ocean to the head of tide at Bonneville Dam, located at river kilometer (RKm) 233. Our study focused on the freshwater portion of the estuarine gradient (RKm 40 to RKm 233) of the Columbia River estuary and the corresponding continuum of hydrologic regimes and biotic communities. Several diverse forested wetland community types occurred along this freshwater estuarine gradient with major shifts in community composition corresponding to the transition from predominantly tidal to predominantly fluvial hydrologic regimes. We quantitatively characterized the floristic structure, species composition, and species richness of these tidal wetlands. Additionally, we documented variation in the avifaunal and insect assemblages associated with the floral structure. We found that freshwater tidal forested wetlands in the lower reaches of the estuary were characterized by high vegetation species richness and complex forest and scrub-shrub ecosystems, while tidal wetlands in the upper reaches of the estuary displayed a greater diversity of wetland ecosystems (forested, scrub-shrub, emergent, and aquatic bed) but comparatively lower species richness. A transitional area in the mid-estuary contained forested wetlands that exhibited some similarities to estuarine forested wetlands in both the upper and lower reaches. Likewise, avifauna and insect assemblage composition transitioned along the tidal freshwater estuarine gradient. Differences in geomorphological and hydrological regimes along the estuarine gradient appear to be the factors controlling the variation in tidal freshwater forested wetland characteristics and species composition. A thorough understanding of this complex and understudied system is necessary for predicting the potential impacts of hydrologic regime alterations and climate change and for guiding ongoing restoration efforts in the region.	[Johnson, LK] Univ Washington, Pacific Groundwater Grp, Sch Aquat Fishery Sci, Seattle, WA 98102 USA; [Simenstad, CA] Univ Washington, Sch Aquat & Fishery Sci, Seattle, WA 98105 USA	Johnson, LK (reprint author), Univ Washington, Pacific Groundwater Grp, Sch Aquat Fishery Sci, Seattle, WA 98102 USA.	laura@pgwg.com; simenstd@u.washington.edu			5	61	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	1559-2723		ESTUAR COAST	Estuaries Coasts	2015	MAR	38	2				679	698	20		CA3EN	CCC:000348789300022					2019-04-10J	Huggard, DJGrover, BEDzus, ESmith, MSchieck, J	Huggard, David J.; Grover, Brigitte E.; Dzus, Elston; Smith, Matthew; Schieck, Jim		Effectiveness monitoring for biodiversity: comparing 15 year old structural retention harvest areas to fires in boreal aspen	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring Institute, Alberta-Pacific Forest Industries, aspen, biodiversity monitoring, harvest-fire convergence, structural retention	SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT, NATURAL DISTURBANCE, NORTHERN EUROPE, CONSERVATION, WILDFIRE, PATTERNS, IMPACTS, ECOLOGY, REGIMES, ALBERTA	Convergence of species composition in regenerating harvested areas and naturally disturbed forest is a critical component of forest management modeled after natural disturbances. We assessed convergence of birds, plants, and habitat structures in aspen (Populus tremuloides) stands harvested with structural retention by Alberta-Pacific Forest Industries Inc. (Al-Pac) 15 years ago with similar aged fire area, and examined a chronosequence of younger and older burned aspen stands from Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring Institute (ABMI) sites. Most habitat structures and many bird and plant species in the 15 year harvest areas were at levels similar to 20-40 year or >40 year fire areas. Snags, moss, and lichen cover, and a few groups of species were at lower levels in the harvest areas than comparable aged fire areas or older stands. Agglomerative clustering showed the plant community to be most similar to >40 year burned stands, with the bird community intermediate between >20 year and <20 year fire areas. A novel likelihood-based analysis of species estimated the 15 year harvest areas to have a community similar to forest sites with 36.8% human footprint, indicating substantial recovery of the harvest areas. Harvesting aspen stands with structural retention appears to be effective at allowing most biodiversity components to recover rapidly.	[Huggard, DJ; Smith, M] Apophenia Consulting, N Vancouver, BC V7L 2E7, Canada; [Grover, BE; Dzus, E] Alberta Pacific Forest Ind, Boyle, AB T0A 0M0, Canada; [Schieck, J] Alberta Innovates Technol Futures, Alberta Biodivers Monitoring Inst, Vegreville, AB T9C 1T4, Canada	Huggard, DJ (reprint author), Apophenia Consulting, 517 E 10th St, N Vancouver, BC V7L 2E7, Canada.	dhuggard@telus.net			3	47	CANADIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING, NRC RESEARCH PRESS	OTTAWA	65 AURIGA DR, SUITE 203, OTTAWA, ON K2E 7W6, CANADA	http://www.nrcresearchpress.com	0045-5067		CAN J FOREST RES	Can. J. For. Res.	2015	FEB	45	2				153	161	9		AZ9IB	CCC:000348526000003					2019-04-10J	Figarski, TKajtoch, L	Figarski, Tomasz; Kajtoch, Lukasz		Alterations of riverine ecosystems adversely affect bird assemblages	HYDROBIOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AQUATIC SCIENCES	Marine & Freshwater Biology	River regulation, Flood, Bird assemblages, Habitat guild, Biodiversity	BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, HABITAT THRESHOLDS, DEAD WOOD, WATER, RESTORATION, MANAGEMENT, FLOODPLAIN, CARPATHIANS, INDICATORS, GOOSANDER	The alteration of flow regimes is the most serious threat to the environment and populations of riverine ecosystems. The aim of this study was to verify how newly recovered assemblages of riverine birds react to recent and intensive water control transformations. Data on habitat transformations, breeding bird species and population abundance within submontane river channels in southern Poland were compared before and after river regulation. Regulation works affected approximately one-third of river sections in the drainages studied. Simultaneously, large amounts of gravel, clay and woody debris were removed from river channels, and river channels became overgrown by dense vegetation. Regulation works carried out in river channels, previously restored by severe flood, led to a strong decline in breeding bird assemblages (23% decrease of species richness and 33% decrease of population abundance). These results show that river regulation can significantly alter the structure of breeding bird assemblages, and such change is generally negative for bird diversity (especially for rare and vulnerable species). Riverine habitats are some of the most important biodiversity hotspots and major routes of migration for organisms in Europe, so the degradation of riverine ecosystems can have a catastrophic impact on nature in the entire European Union.	[Figarski, T; Kajtoch, L] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Systemat & Evolut Anim, PL-31016 Krakow, Poland	Figarski, T (reprint author), Polish Acad Sci, Inst Systemat & Evolut Anim, 17 Slawkowska, PL-31016 Krakow, Poland.	tomasz.figarski.isez@gmail.com	Kajtoch, Lukasz/B-4236-2012	Kajtoch, Lukasz/0000-0001-7345-9400	0	62	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0018-8158		HYDROBIOLOGIA	Hydrobiologia	2015	FEB	744	1				287	296	10		AW3JH	CCC:000346182100020		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Bergner, AAvci, MEryigit, HJansson, NNiklasson, MWesterberg, LMilberg, P	Bergner, Adam; Avci, Mustafa; Eryigit, Hasan; Jansson, Nicklas; Niklasson, Mats; Westerberg, Lars; Milberg, Per		Influences of forest type and habitat structure on bird assemblages of oak (Quercus spp.) and pine (Pinus spp.) stands in southwestern Turkey	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Birds, Forestry, Guilds, Management, Oak, Pine	MIDDLE SPOTTED WOODPECKER, PLANTATION FORESTS, MEDITERRANEAN REGION, SPECIES RICHNESS, POPULATION-SIZE, NORTHERN EUROPE, PATCH SIZE, COMMUNITIES, MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION	The Mediterranean basin exhibits a multitude of forest habitats affected by former and current exploitation and management. Recent afforestation programs have resulted in an increase in the proportion of coniferous trees, while oak stands, formerly utilized for coppicing and grazing, are abandoned or converted into coniferous plantations. The loss of oak stands might negatively affect birds dependent upon broadleaved forests. Studies confirming or rejecting that statement are scarce, particularly in the eastern part of the region. Using a study area in southwestern Turkey we applied a guild-based approach to investigate how pine and oak stands across a chronosequence differ in their capacity to support forest bird assemblages. Variables describing the vegetation were sampled to characterize the stands and relate bird assemblages to stand structure. Bird abundance and species richness was positively associated with age for both stand types. Richness and diversity was highest in oak stands, while there were no differences in bird abundance between the two forest types. Pine stands supported a different bird species composition compared to oak stands of the same age. Stand age and structure, rather than forest type, held the highest explanatory powers for bird assembly structure. Primary cavity-nesters and ground-nesters were more abundant in oak stands, possibly reflecting differences in stand structure and resource distribution. To support these birds with suitable habitats, oaks stands need conservation. Management practices in pine stands should strive for increasing the amount of old trees and retain vegetation in the understory to benefit breeding birds. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Bergner, A; Jansson, N; Westerberg, L; Milberg, P] Linkoping Univ, IFM Biol, Conservat Ecol Grp, Linkoping, Sweden; [Avci, M] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Fac Forestry, TR-32200 Isparta, Turkey; [Eryigit, H] Isparta Prov Forest Dist Directorate, Isparta, Turkey; [Niklasson, M] SLU, Southern Swedish Forest Res Ctr, Alnarp, Sweden	Milberg, P (reprint author), Linkoping Univ, IFM Biol, Conservat Ecol Grp, Linkoping, Sweden.	permi@ifm.liu.se	Milberg, Per/G-6153-2012; Westerberg, Lars/	Milberg, Per/0000-0001-6128-1051; Westerberg, Lars/0000-0001-9820-3460	1	37	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2015	JAN	336					137	147	11		AY7KU	CCC:000347740000015					2019-04-10J	Millan, CHDeveley, PFVerdade, LM	Millan, Cristiane H.; Develey, Pedro F.; Verdade, Luciano M.		Stand-level management practices increase occupancy by birds in exotic Eucalyptus plantations	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird conservation, Detectability, Isolated trees, Scattered trees, Silviculture, Understory management	NEW-SOUTH-WALES, ATLANTIC FOREST, STEPPING-STONES, VARIEGATED LANDSCAPE, CONSERVATION VALUE, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, PINE PLANTATIONS, PADDOCK TREES, MATRIX, COMMUNITIES	Managing for wildlife in human-dominated matrices outside natural reserves has great importance to improve the efficacy of conservation efforts aiming to protect and restore biodiversity. As such, it is critical to understand which features of the matrix enhance habitat suitability to the remaining species and also to evaluate species responses to alternative management practices. We used hierarchical modeling to estimate the effect of stand level management practices adopted in Eucalyptus plantations on site occupancy by birds while accounting for species detection failure. Our models incorporated site-specific traits, such as management practice type and landscape attributes of each sampling unit. They also incorporate species-specific traits, particularly main foraging stratum. The major factor associated with differences in site occupancy by birds within our study site is the management practice type. Scattered native trees and early successional stage understory within mature stands were associated with an increase in the proportion of bird species from the regional pool that was able to occupy the silvicultural matrix. Landscape attributes had a relatively minor effect on site occupancy in our study area. We concluded that site occupancy by birds is positively associated with increasing spatial complexity within Eucalyptus stands, with species responding to the retention of native scattered trees and understory presence. Forestry managers interested in improving the conservation value for birds of Eucalyptus plantations in tropical areas should maintain existing native trees and adopt practices that trigger understory regeneration during site preparation and stand rotation. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Millan, CH] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biociencias, Dept Ecol, BR-05508900 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Develey, PF] BirdLife SAVE Brasil, BR-05427010 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Verdade, LM] Univ Sao Paulo, Ctr Energia Nucl Agr, Lab Ecol Isotop, BR-13416000 Piracicaba, Brazil	Millan, CH (reprint author), Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biociencias, Dept Ecol, Rua Matao 321,Travessa 14, BR-05508900 Sao Paulo, Brazil.	millan.cristiane@gmail.com; pedro.develey@savebrasil.org.br; lmverdade@usp.br			3	40	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2015	JAN	336					174	182	9		AY7KU	CCC:000347740000018					2019-04-10J	Kloskowski, JNieoczym, M	Kloskowski, J.; Nieoczym, M.		Management practices to enhance wildlife diversity of man-made fish ponds: the importance of the hydroperiod	KNOWLEDGE AND MANAGEMENT OF AQUATIC ECOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AQUATIC SCIENCES	Marine & Freshwater Biology	aquaculture, anthropogenic wetland, ecosystem service, hydroperiod, pond biodiversity	COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, SPECIES RICHNESS, COMMON CARP, WATER-QUALITY, RICE FIELDS, HABITAT, WETLAND, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, RESTORATION	We examined correlates of amphibian and waterbird diversity related to management practices, with a focus on timing of flooding, at shallow ponds used for common carp Cyprinus carpio culture in Eastern Poland. The age of the stocked fish was a strong predictor of amphibian diversity, with higher scores obtained in ponds with young-of-the-year carp compared to ponds containing older (and larger) fish. Pond cover by emergent vegetation was positively related to diversity of both taxonomic groups. The timing of filling affected the taxonomic richness of the ponds; in contrast to ponds filled in early spring (March-early April), early breeding amphibian species were not recorded in ponds filled later (early May). However, amphibian diversity did not differ between earlyand late-flooded ponds. Early availability of filled ponds favored waterbird species richness and diversity, and the hydroperiod effect overcame the effect of fish age/size. Dissimilar responses to hydroperiod onset may reflect differences between amphibian and bird communities in the nature and strength of interactions with fish. Timing of flooding, which appears to be a neglected determinant of biodiversity in anthropogenic wetlands, should consider the breeding and migration phenology of wildlife species and the presence and population structure of fish.	[Kloskowski, J] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Inst Zool, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland; [Nieoczym, M] Univ Life Sci, Dept Zool Anim Ecol & Hunting, Akad 13, PL-20033 Lublin, Poland	Kloskowski, J (reprint author), Poznan Univ Life Sci, Inst Zool, Wojska Polskiego 71C, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland.	janusz6kl@gmail.com		Kloskowski, Janusz/0000-0002-0525-2421	1	21	EDP SCIENCES S A	LES ULIS CEDEX A	17, AVE DU HOGGAR, PA COURTABOEUF, BP 112, F-91944 LES ULIS CEDEX A, FRANCE	http://www.edpsciences.org	1961-9502		KNOWL MANAG AQUAT EC	Knowl. Manag. Aquat. Ecosyst.	2015			416				34	34	15		CZ3GC	CCC:000366991400033		DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Agra, MBilenca, DCodesido, M	Agra, Manuel; Bilenca, David; Codesido, Mariano		Responses of birds to planting of Lotus tenuis pasture in the Flooding Pampas, Argentina	EMU			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	agroecosystem, grassland birds, habitat management, South America	GRASSLAND BIRDS, NATURAL GRASSLANDS, BUENOS-AIRES, LAND-USE, ASSEMBLAGES, HABITAT, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, AGROECOSYSTEMS, ABUNDANCE	The Flooding Pampas is the most important livestock region of Argentina, but is a region where replacement of originally natural, perennial tussock grasses by pasture species is changing the heterogeneity of the grassland system. We evaluated the response of grassland bird assemblages of the Flooding Pampas to planting of Lotus tenuis (Lotus) pasture, which mainly modifies vegetation structure by reducing vertical heterogeneity. Species richness and abundance of birds were compared between fields of Lotus pasture and semi-natural grasslands. Avian species richness and abundance were both greater in semi-natural grassland than in Lotus pasture. When grouped by nesting habits (grassland specialists, generalists), species richness and abundance of grassland specialists was greater in semi-natural grassland, whereas richness and abundance of generalist species was greater in Lotus pasture. An indicator-species analysis showed that five grassland birds were closely linked to semi-natural grassland vegetation, with two of those species - Hudson's Canastero (Asthenes hudsoni) and Bay-capped Wren-Spinetail (Spartonoica maluroides) of conservation concern. 1 In contrast, generalist species, such as Southern Lapwings (Vanellus chilensis) and Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia), were associated with Lotus pasture. Planting of Lotus pasture has negative effects on species that naturally occur in tussock grassland. Grassland management methods, such as intercropping and rotational grazing, could help reconcile the effects of livestock production and the conservation grassland bird conservation in the Flooding Pampas.	[Agra, M; Bilenca, D; Codesido, M] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Dept Biodiversidad & Biol Expt, GEBA, RA-1053 Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Agra, M; Bilenca, D; Codesido, M] UBA, CONICET, IEGEBA, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina	Agra, M (reprint author), Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Dept Biodiversidad & Biol Expt, GEBA, RA-1053 Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina.	manuelagra@ege.fcen.uba.ar			0	3	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	0158-4197		EMU	Emu	2015		115	3				270	276	7	10.1071/MU14075	CN8BW	CCC:000358663200009					2019-04-10J	Bellis, LMMuriel, N	Bellis, Laura M.; Muriel, Nadia		Response of the endemic Long-tailed Meadowlark (Sturnella loyca obscura) to grazing exclusion in herbivore-dependent upland grasslands of Argentina	EMU			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Cordoba, density, ground-feeding birds, livestock effects, mountains	HETEROGENEOUS MOUNTAIN RANGELAND, SOUTHERN PAMPAS GRASSLANDS, SEMIARID CHACO FOREST, BIRD COMMUNITIES, HABITAT SELECTION, PREDATION RISK, SPATIAL AUTOCORRELATION, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, SOIL CONSERVATION, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE	In grassland ecosystems livestock grazing is one of the main activities that modify habitat and which can lead to positive or negative effects on birds. In the Sierras Grandes of Cordoba, Argentina, livestock grazing began early in the 17th century, causing severe soil erosion. To restore the grasslands, livestock were excluded from a large area in 1997. However, the impact of grazing exclusion on endemic birds is not clear. We evaluated the effect of grazing exclusion on density and habitat attributes of populations of Long-tailed Meadowlarks (Sturnella loyca obscura). The highest density was recorded in ungrazed sites. Fitted models explained up to 75% of the variability in density of Long-tailed Meadowlarks. Litter depth, percentage of bare soil (with positive effects), soil compaction (estimated as impedance) and percentage of moss cover (with negative effects) were the most important variables explaining the variation in the estimated density of birds. We concluded that 11 years of grazing exclusion favoured Meadowlark populations, providing increased availability of resources, mainly those related to soil quality. Hence, we recommend promoting alternative management practices, such as reintroduction of large native herbivores where possible and livestock grazing at reduced stocking rates, to counterbalance the cost of soil loss and the benefit that large herbivores provide to the system.	[Bellis, LM] Univ Nacl Cordoba IDEA CONICET UNC, Fac Ciencias Fis & Nat, Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, Inst Diversidad & Ecol Anim, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina; [Bellis, LM; Muriel, N] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Exactas Fis & Nat, Catedra Ecol, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina	Bellis, LM (reprint author), Univ Nacl Cordoba IDEA CONICET UNC, Fac Ciencias Fis & Nat, Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, Inst Diversidad & Ecol Anim, Velez Sarsfield 299, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina.	lbellis@com.uncor.edu			0	14	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	0158-4197		EMU	Emu	2015		115	2				176	184	9		CH6WR	CCC:000354177600010					2019-04-10J	Cardoni, DAIsacch, JPIribarne, O	Augusto Cardoni, Daniel; Pablo Isacch, Juan; Iribarne, Oscar		Avian responses to varying intensity of cattle production in Spartina densiflora saltmarshes of south-eastern South America	EMU			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Argentina, cattle grazing, conservation, fire, grassland birds, Pampas	SPINETAIL SPARTONOICA-MALUROIDES, CENTRAL ARGENTINA, SPECIES RICHNESS, BREEDING SUCCESS, GRASSLAND BIRDS, PAMPAS REGION, BUENOS-AIRES, LAND-USE, HABITAT, FIRE	Saltmarshes of Spartina densiflora in south-eastern South America have been modified by anthropogenic activities, mainly production of livestock. We examined the effect of the intensity of cattle production on the structure of saltmarsh vegetation and the effect of these changes to vegetation on the richness, composition and size of the avian populations and the abundance of nests. The levels of cattle production were based on the combined intensity of prescribed burning and cattle grazing, classed as: (1) High grazing - High burning (HH), (2) Low grazing - Low burning (LL) and (3) No grazing - No burning (NN). Cattle production altered the vegetation structure of saltmarshes and indirectly modified the richness, composition and size of their avian populations and the abundance of nests. Saltmarshes with either LL or NN production levels were inhabited by tall grassland specialists and generalists and by species specialised to live in a mosaic of short and tall grassland patches. Conversely, saltmarshes with HH production levels were inhabited by short-grassland specialists. That avian species diversity does not differ between S. densiflora saltmarsh subject to low or no human impacts has several potential interpretations, which are discussed. These findings have implications for management of grasslands to maintain avian diversity.	[Cardoni, DA; Isacch, JP; Iribarne, O] Univ Nacl Mar del Plata, Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, IIMyC, Mar Del Plata, Buenos Aires, Argentina	Cardoni, DA (reprint author), Univ Nacl Mar del Plata, Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, IIMyC, Funes 3250,B7602AYJ, Mar Del Plata, Buenos Aires, Argentina.	acardoni@mdp.edu.ar			0	17	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	0158-4197		EMU	Emu	2015		115	1				12	19	8		CB4SK	CCC:000349618100003					2019-04-10J	Maya-Elizarraras, ESchondube, JE	Maya-Elizarraras, Elisa; Schondube, Jorge E.		Birds, charcoal and cattle: Bird community responses to human activities in an oak forest landscape shaped by charcoal extraction	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Livestock, Mexico, Michoacan, Oak forest, Succession, Bird community	TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, SPECIES RICHNESS, AVIAN DIVERSITY, SUCCESSIONAL FORESTS, SHIFTING-CULTIVATION, YUCATAN PENINSULA, LOS-TUXTLAS, MEXICO, VEGETATION, PATTERNS	Oak forests around the world have been widely used to obtain firewood and produce charcoal and like other habitats have been affected by the increasing development of livestock activities. Oak forests from western Mexico are one of the five priority habitats for the conservation of birds at a continental level and are the repository of the highest number of endemic bird species in this megadiverse country. We studied how charcoal extraction and the use of oak forest for cattle grazing affect bird communities. We focused our work on oak forest patches with four different management units that include three successional stages that occur after most of the trees have been removed for charcoal production and cattle-grazing is conducted, and mature oak forest patches with little wood extraction and no cattle-grazing. We used unlimited radius point counts to survey avian communities, and compared their richness, composition, density, structure and similarity among the different management units. We found that resident bird species, summer migrants and Neotropical migrant bird species used the four management units differently. Resident bird species used all habitat units similarly. Winter migrants as a group were present in the different management units, however while some species used habitats with cattle, other species used habitats with no cattle-grazing. Finally, summer migrants used habitat units with tall trees and high values of tree and shrub richness, and tended to avoid the early successional unit. Both charcoal extraction and cattle grazing worked in synergy decreasing the species richness and the equity of the bird communities. Management strategies should include active conservation of undisturbed oak forest areas because they play an essential role to-maintain resident bird species in the landscape. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Maya-Elizarraras, E] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Coyoacan 04510, DF, Mexico; [Maya-Elizarraras, E; Schondube, JE] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Ctr Invest Ecosistemas, Morelia 58190, Michoacan, Mexico	Schondube, JE (reprint author), Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Ctr Invest Ecosistemas, Antigua Carretera Patzcuaro 8701, Morelia 58190, Michoacan, Mexico.	chon@cieco.unam.mx			0	21	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2015	JAN	335					118	128	11		AY7KT	CCC:000347739900011					2019-04-10J	Kendrick, SWPorneluzi, PAThompson, FRMorris, DLHaslerig, JMFaaborg, J	Kendrick, Sarah W.; Porneluzi, Paul A.; Thompson, Frank R., III; Morris, Dana L.; Haslerig, Janet M.; Faaborg, John		Stand-Level Bird Response to Experimental Forest Management in the Missouri Ozarks	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	breeding birds, density, experimental study, forest management, Missouri Ozark Forest Ecosystem Project, MOFEP, spot-mapping	NESTING SUCCESS, GROUP-SELECTION, HABITAT USE, LANDSCAPE, COMMUNITIES, POPULATIONS, CLEARCUTS, KNOWLEDGE, OVENBIRDS, SIZE	Long-term landscape-scale experiments allow for the detection of effects of silviculture on bird abundance. Manipulative studies allow for strong inference on effects and confirmation of patterns from observational studies. We estimated bird-territory density within forest stands (2.89-62ha) for 19 years of the Missouri Ozark Forest Ecosystem Project (MOFEP), a 100-year experiment designed to study the effects of even-age and uneven-age management on wildlife. We spot-mapped territories of 15 species in 228 stands for 5 years before treatment and 14 years after treatment to assess the effects of stand-level silvicultural treatments (clearcut, select cut, thin, and no-harvest) applied within even-age, uneven-age, or no-harvest (control) management sites and year on avian territory density. We used 2 a priori contrasts to compare pre-treatment bird densities with densities during early (3-5 yr) and late (12-14 yr) post-treatment periods. The interaction of silvicultural treatment and year had significant effects on the densities of all 15 species. Densities of hooded warbler (Setophaga citrina), indigo bunting (Passerina cyanea), prairie warbler (Setophaga discolor), and yellow-breasted chat (Icteria virens) increased significantly 3-5 years post-treatment with the greatest changes in clearcuts, but densities 12-14 years post-treatment did not differ from pre-treatment densities. Densities of Acadian flycatcher (Empidonax virescens), wood thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), and especially ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla) had significant decreases in clearcut stands after treatment and lesser decreases in select cut or thin stands post-treatment. Densities of black-and-white warbler (Mniotilta varia), eastern wood-pewee (Contopus virens), and Kentucky warbler (Geothlypis formosa) increased in clearcut, thin, and select cut stands, but these increases were short-lived and sporadic by year after treatment. Densities of Acadian flycatcher and ovenbird remained lower in clearcut stands than no-harvest stands 13 years post-treatment. The results of this manipulative experiment were mostly consistent with our predictions of bird response to common silvicultural treatments in these forests. Managers can use these species-specific responses to silvicultural treatment to guide management decisions for target species or to balance management practices in a landscape to meet the needs of multiple species. (c) 2014 The Wildlife Society.	[Kendrick, SW] Univ Missouri, Div Biol Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Porneluzi, PA; Morris, DL] Cent Methodist Univ, Div Sci & Math, Fayette, MO 65248 USA; [Thompson, FR] Univ Missouri, USDA, US Forest Serv, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Haslerig, JM] Missouri Dept Conservat, Jefferson City, MO 65109 USA; [Faaborg, J] Univ Missouri, Div Biol Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA	Kendrick, SW (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Div Biol Sci, 302 Anheuser Busch Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	sarahwkendrick@gmail.com			8	69	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2015	JAN	79	1				50	59	10		AW9YT	CCC:000346611800007					2019-04-10J	Kumar, RShahabuddin, GKumar, A	Kumar, Raman; Shahabuddin, Ghazala; Kumar, Ajith		Habitat determinants of woodpecker abundance and species richness in sub-Himalayan dipterocarp forests of north-west India	ACTA ORNITHOLOGICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bird communities, forest management, Picidae, seasonality, Shorea robusta, sub-Himalayas, vegetation structure, selective logging	EXOTIC TREE PLANTATION, SPOTTED WOODPECKER, BIRD COMMUNITIES, BORNEAN LOWLAND, RAIN-FOREST, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, BIODIVERSITY, FLORISTICS, SELECTION	Ecological impacts of habitat change on woodpeckers remain largely unstudied in regions other than Europe and North America. The sub-Himalayan sal Shorea robusta forests of northwest India have 17 woodpecker species, and a history of management-induced habitat modification. We studied how habitat parameters affect woodpeckers at a community level (viz. total abundance and species richness) as well as at individual species level. We assessed woodpecker abundance, species richness and described habitat features at 8 sites representing a gradient of structure and composition in a sal-dominated landscape. We surveyed each site in 2-km-long transects 20 times over breeding and non-breeding seasons and evaluated habitat characteristics in 10 circular and belt plots. We analysed woodpecker abundance, species richness, and abundance of individual species as functions of habitat variables and season. Woodpecker encounter rates and mean species richness, respectively, ranged from 1.5 to 10.0 birds/km and 1.7 to 6.9 species per survey at individual sites. Distance-based estimates of densities for the most frequently-observed species were also obtained. Basal area (large trees) and density of snags positively influenced total woodpecker abundance and species richness, with snags being more important during breeding season. Basal area was important for Greater Flameback Chrysocolaptes lucidus, Grey-faced Woodpecker Picus canus, Fulvous-breasted Woodpecker Dendrocopos macei and Lesser Yellownape Picus chlorolophus. Snags, tree density, tree diameter and termitarium density appeared to affect Grey-capped Pygmy Woodpecker Dendrocopos canicapillus, Black-rumped Flameback Dinopium benghalense, Himalayan Flameback Dinopium shorii and Streak-throated Woodpecker Picus xanthopygaeus. Hence, for the conservation of native woodpecker communities in sal forests, it is necessary to retain large trees and standing dead wood.	[Kumar, R] Nat Sci Initiat, Dehra Dun 248001, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Kumar, R; Kumar, A] Ctr Wildlife Studies, Bangalore 560070, Karnataka, India; [Shahabuddin, G] Ctr Ecol Dev & Res, Dehra Dun 248006, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Kumar, A] Natl Ctr Biol Sci, Wildlife Conservat Soc India Programme, Bangalore 560065, Karnataka, India	Kumar, R (reprint author), Nat Sci Initiat, 36 Curzon Rd, Dehra Dun 248001, Uttar Pradesh, India.	raman@naturescienceinitiative.org			0	21	MUSEUM & INST ZOOLOGY	WARSAW	WILCZA 64, PL-00-679 WARSAW, POLAND		0001-6454		ACTA ORNITHOL	Acta Ornithol.	2014	DEC	49	2				243	256	14		CD3FR	CCC:000350963900010					2019-04-10J	Fogg, AMRoberts, LJBurnett, RD	Fogg, Alissa M.; Roberts, L. Jay; Burnett, Ryan D.		Occurrence patterns of Black-backed Woodpeckers in green forest of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, California, USA.	AVIAN CONSERVATION AND ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, FIRE SEVERITY, BOREAL FOREST, FORAGING ECOLOGY, CONIFER FORESTS, HABITAT, OCCUPANCY, CONSERVATION, RESOURCE	Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) are a rare habitat specialist typically found in moderate and high severity burned forest throughout its range. It also inhabits green forest but little is known about occurrence and habitat use patterns outside of burned areas, especially in the Sierra Nevada of California, USA. We used point count and playback surveys to detect Black-backed Woodpeckers during 2011 -2013 on 460 transects on 10 national forest units. We defined green forest as areas that had not burned at moderate or high severity since 1991 and were more than 2 km from areas burned at moderate or high severity within the previous eight years (n = 386 transects). We used occupancy models to examine green forest habitat associations and found positive relationships with elevation, latitude, northern aspects, number of snags, tree diameter, lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) forest, and a negative relationship with slope. Estimated occupancy in green forest was higher than previously understood (0.21). In addition site colonization and extinction probability in green forest were low (0.05 and 0.19, respectively) and suggest that many of the individuals detected in green forest were not just actively dispersing across the landscape in search of burned areas, but were occupying relatively stable home ranges. The association with high elevation and lodgepole pine forest may increase their exposure to climate change as these elevation forest types are predicted to decrease in extent over the next century. Although density is high in burned forest, green forest covers significantly more area in the Sierra Nevada and should be considered in efforts to conserve this rare species.		Fogg, AM (reprint author), 3820 Cypress Dr Suite 11, Petaluma, CA 94954 USA.	afogg@pointblue.org			0	28	RESILIENCE ALLIANCE	WOLFVILLE	ACADIA UNIV, BIOLOGY DEPT, WOLFVILLE, NS B0P 1X0, CANADA	http://www.resalliance.org	1712-6568		AVIAN CONSERV ECOL	Avian Conserv. Ecol.	2014	DEC	9	2				3	3	12		AZ0GH	CCC:000347923600001		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Richardson, ANKoper, NWhite, KA	Richardson, Alexis N.; Koper, Nicola; White, Krystle A.		Interactions between ecological disturbances: burning and grazing and their effects on songbird communities in northern mixed-grass prairies	AVIAN CONSERVATION AND ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, BIRD POPULATIONS, PRESCRIBED FIRE, PASSERINE BIRDS, POINT COUNTS, CONSERVATION, HABITAT, MANAGEMENT, VEGETATION	Historically, North American prairies were strongly influenced by two natural disturbances, fire and grazing, and their interaction. However, the frequency and size of fires has been greatly altered over time, while native ungulates have been replaced by livestock; this may have had strong ecological influences on modern prairies. The feedback hypothesis proposes that grazing by ungulates will increase the duration of fire effects because ungulates will be attracted to burned patches. We conducted point-count surveys in burned-grazed, burned-ungrazed, unburned-grazed, and unburned-ungrazed sites over a 5-year period following fires that occurred naturally in 2006 in southern Saskatchewan, Canada, to test predictions related to avian community composition related to the feedback hypothesis. Generalized linear mixed models were used to analyze interactions among burning, grazing, and time since burning. Six of the nine avian species we studied responded positively or negatively to burning or grazing, although there were few statistically significant effects on the vegetation structure variables we measured. We found mixed evidence that grazing increased the duration of effects of burning, cumulatively providing little evidence for the feedback hypothesis. Nonetheless, effects of burning and grazing differed from and interacted with one another; for example, short-term effects of burning on Sprague's Pipits (Anthus spragueii) and Baird's Sparrows (Ammodramus bairdii) were greater than effects of grazing, and effects of grazing and burning in combination were frequently greater than effects of a single disturbance. Therefore, both should be integrated into management for the conservation of grassland songbirds.	[Richardson, AN; Koper, N; White, KA] Univ Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, Canada	Koper, N (reprint author), 70 Dysart Rd, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2M6, Canada.	nicola.koper@umanitoba.ca			4	66	RESILIENCE ALLIANCE	WOLFVILLE	ACADIA UNIV, BIOLOGY DEPT, WOLFVILLE, NS B0P 1X0, CANADA	http://www.resalliance.org	1712-6568		AVIAN CONSERV ECOL	Avian Conserv. Ecol.	2014	DEC	9	2				5	5	11		AZ0GH	CCC:000347923600005		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Long, AMJensen, WEMatlack, RS	Long, Ashley M.; Jensen, William E.; Matlack, Raymond S.		INFLUENCE OF PRESCRIBED BURNING ON BIRD ABUNDANCE AND SPECIES ASSEMBLAGE IN A SEMIARID GREAT PLAINS GRASSLAND	WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		SOUTHEASTERN ARIZONA, ROLLING PLAINS, FIRE, PRAIRIE, TEXAS, CONSERVATION, VEGETATION, COMMUNITY, ECOSYSTEMS, SURVIVAL	Encroachment of woody plants is widespread in semiarid grasslands of the southwestern United States. Wildlife responses to shrub removal techniques in the region are relatively unknown. In 2008 and 2009, we examined avian responses to prescribed burning of ungrazed shortgrass prairie within a study area (4811 ha) near Amarillo, Texas, that is heavily encroached by honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) and cholla (Opuntia spp.). Specifically, we compared relative abundance, species richness, and species diversity of breeding birds across large, spatially replicated experimental plots burned every 2 or 4 years since 2002 and unburned controls. We found no significant differences in the mean relative abundance of most species across the treatments. However, Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), Cassin's Sparrow (Peucaea cassinii), and Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) were more abundant in less frequently burned plots and unburned controls. We found no differences in species richness or diversity across the treatments. Limited variation in avian responses across the treatments likely reflects the uniform pattern of vegetation structure we found across the plots, despite repeated application of prescribed fire at 2- and 4-year intervals over a 7-year period. Differences in bird species assemblages among the burn treatments might be more prominent in future years as prescribed burning continues.	[Long, AM; Jensen, WE] Emporia State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Emporia, KS 66801 USA; [Matlack, RS] West Texas A&M Univ, Dept Life Earth & Environm Sci, Canyon, TX 79016 USA	Long, AM (reprint author), Texas A&M Inst Renewable Nat Resources, 1500 Res Pkwy,Suite 110,2260 TAMU, College Stn, TX 77843 USA.	ashley.long@ag.tamu.edu			2	17	BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIV	PROVO	290 LIFE SCIENCE MUSEUM, PROVO, UT 84602 USA	http://www.lib.byu.edu/~nms/	1527-0904		WEST N AM NATURALIST	West. North Am. Naturalist	2014	DEC	74	4				396	404	9		DE8NN	CCC:000370892900004		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Ahmed, SELees, ACMoura, NGGardner, TABarlow, JFerreira, JEwers, RM	Ahmed, Sadia E.; Lees, Alexander C.; Moura, Nargila G.; Gardner, Toby A.; Barlow, Jos; Ferreira, Joice; Ewers, Robert M.		Road networks predict human influence on Amazonian bird communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES			English	Article	Life Sciences (LS)	EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	road density, road effects, infrastructure development, biodiversity, forest birds, Amazon	RAIN-FOREST BIRDS, CENTRAL BRAZILIAN AMAZON, TROPICAL FORESTS, DEFORESTATION, BIODIVERSITY, MOVEMENTS, CONSERVATION, DEGRADATION, RESPONSES, FRAGMENTATION	Road building can lead to significant deleterious impacts on biodiversity, varying from direct road-kill mortality and direct habitat loss associated with road construction, to more subtle indirect impacts from edge effects and fragmentation. However, little work has been done to evaluate the specific effects of road networks and biodiversity loss beyond the more generalized effects of habitat loss. Here, we compared forest bird species richness and composition in the municipalities of Santarem and Belterra in Para state, eastern Brazilian Amazon, with a road network metric called 'roadless volume (RV)' at the scale of small hydrological catchments (averaging 3721 ha). We found a significant positive relationship between RV and both forest bird richness and the average number of unique species (species represented by a single record) recorded at each site. Forest bird community composition was also significantly affected by RV. Moreover, there was no significant correlation between RV and forest cover, suggesting that road networks may impact biodiversity independently of changes in forest cover. However, variance partitioning analysis indicated that RV has partially independent and therefore additive effects, suggesting that RV and forest cover are best used in a complementary manner to investigate changes in biodiversity. Road impacts on avian species richness and composition independent of habitat loss may result from road-dependent habitat disturbance and fragmentation effects that are not captured by total percentage habitat cover, such as selective logging, fire, hunting, traffic disturbance, edge effects and road-induced fragmentation.	[Ahmed, SE] Microsoft Res, Computat Sci Lab, Cambridge CB1 2FB, England; [Ahmed, SE; Ewers, RM] Univ London Imperial Coll Sci Technol & Med, Dept Life Sci, Ascot SL5 7PY, Berks, England; [Lees, AC; Barlow, J] Coordenacao Zool Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, BR-66077530 Belem, Para, Brazil; [Moura, NG] Fed Univ Para, Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Curso Posgrad Zool, BR-66040170 Belem, Para, Brazil; [Gardner, TA] Stockholm Environm Inst, Stockholm, Sweden; [Gardner, TA] Int Inst Sustainabil, BR-22460320 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Barlow, J] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster Environm Ctr, Lancaster LA1 3HE, England; [Ferreira, J] Embrapa Amazonia Oriental, BR-66095100 Belem, Para, Brazil	Ahmed, SE (reprint author), Microsoft Res, Computat Sci Lab, 21 Stn Rd, Cambridge CB1 2FB, England.	sadia@microsoft.com	Barlow, Jos/E-7861-2014; Lees, Alexander/	Lees, Alexander/0000-0001-7603-9081	4	109	ROYAL SOC	LONDON	6-9 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, LONDON SW1Y 5AG, ENGLAND	http://royalsocietypublishing.org/journals	0962-8452		P ROY SOC B-BIOL SCI	Proc. R. Soc. B-Biol. Sci.	2014	NOV	281	1795				41742	41742	9		AQ9VJ	CCC:000343205200023	25274363	Green Published, Bronze			2019-04-10J	Frick, KMRitchie, ALKrauss, SL	Frick, Karen M.; Ritchie, Alison L.; Krauss, Siegfried L.		Field of Dreams: Restitution of Pollinator Services in Restored Bird-Pollinated Plant Populations	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird-pollination, microsatellites, paternity, plant mating system, pollinator services, reproductive functionality	BANKSIA-MENZIESII, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, WESTERN-AUSTRALIA, FORAGING BEHAVIOR, POLLEN DISPERSAL, SEED DISPERSAL, LANDSCAPE, IMPACTS, CONSERVATION, HONEYEATERS	Ecosystem functionality is an increasingly important objective of ecological restoration. Despite this, a few studies have rigorously assessed reproductive functionality within restored plant populations, and it is largely assumed that pollinators follow restoration of plant communitiesbuild it and they will come. Here, we applied an ecological genetic approach to determine the impact of spatial separation on mating in Banksia menziesii (Proteaceae), a dominant bird-pollinated species of Banksia woodlands of Western Australia. All plants at three post-mining restored sites (n = 72 [13 years old], n = 21 [8 years old], and n = 20 [9 years old]), as well as a sample from an adjacent natural reference site (n = 42), were genotyped at nine microsatellite loci. Seed set, mating system parameters, realized pollen dispersal through the assignment of paternity to seed, and avian pollinator species composition, abundance and behavior, were assessed. All patches displayed equivalent heterozygosity (H-e = 0.53-0.59) and very weak genetic divergence (F-ST 0.01). Seed of plants within restored sites showed complete outcrossing and relatively high seed set, 26% of which were sired by pollen donors located beyond the local patch. Similar abundance and movement of nectar-feeding birds was observed in restored and natural sites, despite lower bird species diversity in the restored site, where a smaller, less aggressive species was dominant. Our results demonstrate the restitution of wide outcrossing in these restored Banksia patches within an active mine-site, and suggest that restored bird-pollinated Banksia populations are resilient to human impacts, due largely to their generalist pollinator requirements and highly-mobile avian pollinators.	[Frick, KM; Ritchie, AL; Krauss, SL] Bot Gardens & Pk Author, Sci Directorate, Perth 6005, Australia; [Frick, KM; Ritchie, AL; Krauss, SL] Univ Western Australia, Sch Plant Biol, Crawley 6005, Australia	Krauss, SL (reprint author), Bot Gardens & Pk Author, Sci Directorate, Kings Pk & Bot Garden,Fraser Ave, Perth 6005, Australia.	skrauss@bgpa.wa.gov.au	Frick, Karen/C-5306-2016; Ritchie, Alison/K-1587-2015; Krauss, Siegfried/	Ritchie, Alison/0000-0002-9253-459X; Krauss, Siegfried/0000-0002-7280-6324	1	55	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2014	NOV	22	6				832	840	9		AS8DL	CCC:000344480300017					2019-04-10J	Cullinane-Anthony, BLSeefelt, NECorace, RGKashian, DMGehring, TM	Cullinane-Anthony, Bridget L.; Seefelt, Nancy E.; Corace, R. Gregory, III; Kashian, Daniel M.; Gehring, Thomas M.		Influence of residual forest patches on post-fire bird diversity patterns in jack pine-dominated ecosystems of northern Lower Michigan	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Jack pine, Northern Lower Michigan, Biological legacies, Fire, Stringer, Kirtland's warbler	KIRTLANDS WARBLER, MANAGEMENT, HABITAT, SUCCESSION, REFUGES, HISTORY, FIRE	Stand-replacing fires are part of the natural disturbance regime that maintain jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.) forests of northern Lower Michigan. Currently, the occurrence and extent of wildfire is much reduced relative to the past and young jack pine plantations specifically managed for Kirtland's warbler (Setophaga kirtlandii Baird) are a prominent feature on the landscape. Stringers, or patches of residual prefire forest, are a unique feature left behind after wildfires which are not often accounted for in plantation management. In this study, we examined the ecological value of stringers from an avian biodiversity perspective by comparing bird assemblages found within stringers to those in the surrounding forest (non-stringers). Our objective was to answer two research questions: (I) do stringers have unique bird communities relative to the surrounding vegetation (forest or plantation)?; and (2) how much of the variation in bird communities can be explained by differences in vegetation structure and composition between stringers and non-stringers? We conducted breeding and non-breeding season point counts and used abundance data to compare bird species found within stringers and non-stringers at seven sites grouped by time since disturbance. Species richness was significantly higher (P = 0.01) in the stringers when the non-stringers were 30-40 years old, with 32 species discovered in the stringers and 29 species in the non-stringers. During the breeding season, bird assemblages differed between stringers and non-stringers when the non-stringers were <12 years old (multi-response permutation procedures; T = -10.11, A = 0.07, P = <0.00), but no differences were observed when non-stringers were 30-40 years old or >40 years old. Non-breeding bird communities differed between stringers and non-stringers only when the non-stringer was a recently planted (<5 years old) plantation (T = -2.15, A = 0.09, P = 0.02). Differences in bird assemblages appear to be driven by the vegetation structure of stringers and non-stringers where fires were recent, but increasing similarity in vegetation structure occurs with time since fire; over time the importance of stringers for avian biodiversity is reduced. Our results suggest that stringers are important for bird communities, especially in recently disturbed areas, and that these biological legacies should be considered where jack pine management attempts to emulate natural patterns and processes. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Cullinane-Anthony, BL; Seefelt, NE; Gehring, TM] Cent Michigan Univ, Dept Biol, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA; [Corace, RG] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Seney Natl Wildlife Refuge, Seney, MI 49883 USA; [Kashian, DM] Wayne State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Detroit, MI 48202 USA	Cullinane-Anthony, BL (reprint author), Cent Michigan Univ, Dept Biol, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA.	culli1bl@cmich.edu; seefe1ne@cmich.edu; Greg_Corace@fws.gov; dkash@wayne.edu; gehri1tm@cmich.edu			2	59	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	NOV	331					93	103	11		AR8SH	CCC:000343844200012					2019-04-10J	Sitters, HChristie, FDi Stefano, JSwan, MCollins, PYork, A	Sitters, Holly; Christie, Fiona; Di Stefano, Julian; Swan, Matthew; Collins, Peter; York, Alan		Associations between occupancy and habitat structure can predict avian responses to disturbance: Implications for conservation management	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Birds, Heterogeneity, Prescribed fire, Succession, Vegetation structure	SOUTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, VEGETATION DENSITY, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, FORAGING BEHAVIOR, EUCALYPT FORESTS, BIRD ASSEMBLAGES, FIRE SEVERITY, SMALL MAMMALS, SUCCESSION	Increasingly, fire is used as a management tool to mitigate wildfire risk and conserve biodiversity. Use of time since disturbance as a surrogate for faunal occurrence presents an appealing basis for biodiversity conservation; however, successional change in resource availability is often the direct driver of change in animal occurrence rather than time per se, and rates of resource development can be highly variable. To facilitate prediction of animal responses to disturbance, we sought to test whether time since fire (TSF) and habitat structure can predict bird occurrence. Time is only expected to predict occurrence if (i) species respond to structural resources and (ii) the abundance of these resources can be predicted by time. We examined the responses of 15 bird species to habitat structure and TSF using a 70-year chronosequence spanning three forest types in southeast Australia. Habitat structure variables predicted the occurrence of 13 species, four of which also responded to TSF. The levels of associations between occurrence, structure and TSF varied among vegetation types but response shapes were generally consistent. The fact that the majority of species did not respond to TSF indicates that TSF is an inappropriate surrogate for avian occurrence in our study system. Further, it is unlikely to be a reliable surrogate for faunal occurrence in forests that exhibit variable rates of post-fire structural development. We suggest that relationships between TSF and structure can provide insight into the capacity of TSF to predict animal occurrence. They will also reveal the extent to which fire can be used as a tool for managing biodiversity, and species likely to benefit or be at risk from particular fire regimes. This is critical given projected increases in the frequency and extent of fire in many regions. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Sitters, H; Christie, F; Di Stefano, J; Swan, M; Collins, P; York, A] Univ Melbourne, Dept Forest & Ecosyst Sci, Fire Ecol & Biodivers Grp, Creswick, Vic 3363, Australia	Sitters, H (reprint author), Univ Melbourne, Dept Forest & Ecosyst Sci, Fire Ecol & Biodivers Grp, Creswick, Vic 3363, Australia.	hsitters@student.unimelb.edu.au; fjc@unimelb.edu.au; juliands@unimelb.edu.au; mswan@student.unimelb.edu.au; petercollins129@gmail.com; alan.york@unimelb.edu.au	York, Alan/M-2443-2015	York, Alan/0000-0003-3161-4075	2	52	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	NOV	331					227	236	10		AR8SH	CCC:000343844200025					2019-04-10J	Greenberg, CHFranzreb, KEKeyser, TLZarnoch, SJSimon, DMWarburton, GS	Greenberg, Cathryn H.; Franzreb, Kathleen E.; Keyser, Tara L.; Zarnoch, Stanley J.; Simon, Dean M.; Warburton, Gordon S.		Short-term Response of Breeding Birds to Oak Regeneration Treatments in Upland Hardwood Forest	NATURAL AREAS JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird community, breeding birds, early successional habitat, oak regeneration, prescribed fire, silviculture	EASTERN NORTH-AMERICA, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, NESTING SUCCESS, COMMUNITIES, FIRE, DISTURBANCE, MANAGEMENT, CONSERVATION, POPULATIONS, MATURE	Population declines of several successional-scrub bird species are partly associated with decreased habitat availability as abandoned farmlands return to forest and recently harvested forests regrow. Restoration of mixed-oak (Quercus spp.) forest is also a concern because of widespread oak regeneration failure, especially on moist, productive sites where competition from faster-growing tree species is fierce following stand-replacing disturbances. Several silvicultural methods are proposed to promote oak regeneration but many are not experimentally tested, especially on productive sites. We surveyed birds in 19 stands to assess response to initial application of three proposed oak regeneration treatments on productive sites: prescribed burning (B); oak shelterwood by midstory herbicide (OSW); shelterwood harvests (SW); and controls (C), for one breeding season before, and two breeding seasons after, implementation. Relative density of successional-scrub species Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea), Eastern Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus), and Chestnut-sided Warblers (Setophaga pensylvanica) increased, while Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapilla) decreased within 11 to 18 months after SW harvests; understory disturbance treatments B or OSW had no effect. Our results indicated that partial harvests created habitat for breeding birds associated with both young and mature forests, whereas understory treatments had little effect. Additionally, we show that even small patches of young forest habitat are used by more individuals and more species of breeding birds than surrounding closed-canopy forest, and may benefit successional-scrub species by enabling their occurrence in an otherwise forested landscape. Absence of several lower-elevation successional-scrub bird species in our mid-elevation SW harvests suggests that comprehensive conservation in the southern Appalachians necessitates creating and maintaining young forest habitats across elevation gradients.	[Greenberg, CH; Keyser, TL] US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, Bent Creek Expt Forest, Asheville, NC 28806 USA; [Franzreb, KE] Univ Tennessee, US Forest Serv, Dept Forestry Wildlife & Fisheries, Southern Res Stn,USDA, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Zarnoch, SJ] Clemson Univ, US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Simon, DM] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, Lawndale, NC 28090 USA; [Warburton, GS] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, Marion, NC 28752 USA	Greenberg, CH (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, Bent Creek Expt Forest, 1577 Brevard Rd, Asheville, NC 28806 USA.	kgreenberg@fs.fed.us			1	28	NATURAL AREAS ASSOC	ROCKFORD	320 SOUTH THIRD ST, ROCKFORD, IL 61104 USA	http://www.vmedia.com/naj	0885-8608		NAT AREA J	Nat. Areas J.	2014	OCT	34	4				409	422	14		AT0BL	CCC:000344601800003					2019-04-10J	Walankiewicz, WCzeszczewik, DStanski, TSahel, MRuczynski, I	Walankiewicz, Wieslaw; Czeszczewik, Dorota; Stanski, Tomasz; Sahel, Mustapha; Ruczynski, Ireneusz		Tree Cavity Resources in Spruce-Pine Managed and Protected Stands of the Bialowieza Forest, Poland	NATURAL AREAS JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bialowieza Forest, foundation species, managed stands, nature reserves, primeval stands, tree cavities	PRIMEVAL TEMPERATE FOREST, NESTING BIRDS, DYNAMICS, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPE, OUTBREAK, SNAGS	Tree cavities are vital resources for many animals, especially birds and mammals. We aimed to determine density of cavity resources in coniferous spruce-pine (Pinus/Picea genera) stands of the Bialowieza Forest, Poland, and to correlate their presence with tree species composition, and characteristics of trees and stands (condition, DBH, basal area). We conducted studies in spruce-pine stands with no (national park), medium (seminatural reserves), and high (managed forest) management activity. We measured all trees within 50-m 50-m sample plots (eight plots in each zone) and searched for all tree cavities. The highest density of cavities was observed in the national park (12.5/ha) and the lowest in managed plots (3.0/ha). Most cavities were found in dead trees (74.4%), mainly in pines Pinus sylvestris L. The basal area of dead pines within the stand was the best predictor of cavity presence on sample plots. Our results confirm a key role of pine snags in natural coniferous stands. Forest management leads to dramatic reduction of tree cavity resources in managed stands. We suggest that the leaving or creation of pine snags is the most effective method of providing or retaining cavity resources in commercial coniferous forests in Europe.	[Walankiewicz, W; Czeszczewik, D; Stanski, T; Sahel, M] Siedlce Univ Nat Sci & Humanities, Dept Zool, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland; [Ruczynski, I] Polish Acad Sci, Mammal Res Inst, PL-17230 Bialowieza, Poland	Walankiewicz, W (reprint author), Siedlce Univ Nat Sci & Humanities, Dept Zool, Prusa 12, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland.	wwalan@wp.pl		Czeszczewik, Dorota/0000-0003-0523-1417; Stanski, Tomasz/0000-0003-4271-1161; Ruczynski, Ireneusz/0000-0002-2308-3211; Walankiewicz, Wieslaw/0000-0002-9583-1856	1	22	NATURAL AREAS ASSOC	ROCKFORD	320 SOUTH THIRD ST, ROCKFORD, IL 61104 USA	http://www.vmedia.com/naj	0885-8608		NAT AREA J	Nat. Areas J.	2014	OCT	34	4				423	428	6		AT0BL	CCC:000344601800004					2019-04-10J	Guerrero, ICarmona, CPMorales, MBOnate, JJPeco, B	Guerrero, Irene; Carmona, Carlos P.; Morales, Manuel B.; Onate, Juan J.; Peco, Begona		Non-linear responses of functional diversity and redundancy to agricultural intensification at the field scale in Mediterranean arable plant communities	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agricultural intensification, Weeds, Species richness, Cereal crop, Central Spain	LIFE-HISTORY TRAITS, LAND-USE CHANGE, FARMLAND BIRDS, LANDSCAPE COMPLEXITY, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, EUROPEAN FARMLAND, ECOSYSTEM SERVICE, WEED FLORA, BIODIVERSITY, MANAGEMENT	Despite their key roles in agroecosystems, species diversity of arable plants is being severely reduced by agricultural intensification, although it remains unclear whether functional diversity is affected in a similar way. We analyzed the response of four functional traits of arable plants (specific leaf area, canopy height, seed mass and flowering onset) to agricultural intensification in Mediterranean arable plant communities. Two intensification gradients were obtained by PCA analysis on variables related either to management practices at the individual field scale or to the surrounding landscape structure and composition. Shifts in the community weighted mean (CWM) and the functional diversity (FD) of each trait along these intensification gradients were explored. The relationship between species richness and the FD of each trait (i.e. functional redundancy) along the same gradients was also analyzed. The responses of species richness and the considered functional traits were driven by intensification at the individual field scale, but not by intensification at the scale of the surrounding landscape. Species richness and FD of all the studied traits decreased with intensification, which favoured tall, heavy-seeded and early flowering species. The decrease of FD was non-linear for specific leaf area and seed mass, with maximum reductions at intermediate levels of intensification. Species richness and FD responses were decoupled, indicating that the functional redundancy in the studied communities responds to agricultural intensification in a non-linear fashion. Along the first stages of intensification, there was an important reduction in species richness that was not accompanied by changes in FD. Further levels of intensification resulted in substantial reductions in FD without changes in species richness. These findings provide new insights on how agricultural management interacts with plant communities through its non-linear effects on functional diversity and functional redundancy. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Guerrero, I; Carmona, CP; Morales, MB; Onate, JJ; Peco, B] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Terr Ecol Grp, E-28049 Madrid, Spain	Onate, JJ (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Terr Ecol Grp, C Darwin 2, E-28049 Madrid, Spain.	juan.onate@uam.es	Peco, Begona/C-1197-2012; Guerrero, Irene/K-8172-2017; Carmona, Carlos/J-1536-2012; Onate, Juan/D-4618-2009; Morales, Manuel/B-1448-2014	Peco, Begona/0000-0003-2149-1438; Guerrero, Irene/0000-0002-5025-2025; Carmona, Carlos/0000-0001-6935-4913; Onate, Juan/0000-0002-6984-2615; 	2	78	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2014	OCT	195					36	43	8		AR5MT	CCC:000343629400005					2019-04-10J	Marja, RHerzon, IViik, EElts, JMand, MTscharntke, TBatary, P	Marja, Riho; Herzon, Irina; Viik, Eneli; Elts, Jaanus; Maend, Marika; Tscharntke, Teja; Batary, Peter		Environmentally friendly management as an intermediate strategy between organic and conventional agriculture to support biodiversity	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agri-environmental policy, Birds, Bumblebees, Estonia, Flower cover, Landscape structure	FARMLAND BIRDS, LANDSCAPE CONTEXT, BENEFIT BIODIVERSITY, LAND-USE, BUMBLEBEES, DIVERSITY, SCHEMES, CONSERVATION, METAANALYSIS, HABITAT	Farmland biodiversity dramatically declined in Europe during the 20th century. Agri-environment schemes (AES) were introduced in the late 1980s in European Union countries as a solution to combat biodiversity decline. We examined the effectiveness of AES in enhancing biodiversity in a new EU member country (Estonia) over the period of 2010-2012. We compared species numbers and abundance of bumblebees and birds, plus cover of flowers, between three farming systems in two regions of Estonia. Farm types included conventional and two under AES (organic and a less strict environmentally friendly management agreement). Environmentally friendly management practices in Estonia include diversified crop rotations, at least 15% of arable land (including rotational grasslands) under legumes, permanent grassland strips, protection of landscape elements, reduced applications of agrochemicals, etc. The two selected regions (North and South) differed in landscape structure, soil types and crop yields. Flower cover and bird species richness and abundance without the dominant species (skylark) were higher on organic farms. Bumblebee species richness was significantly higher under both types of AES than under conventional farming. Flower cover, abundance and species richness of bumblebees and birds were significantly higher in the more heterogeneous landscapes of Southern Estonia. Environmentally friendly management may be a viable alternative to organic farming for a widely accepted, simple but large-scale greening of agricultural landscapes. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Marja, R; Tscharntke, T; Batary, P] Univ Gottingen, D-37077 Gottingen, Germany; [Marja, R] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Dept Geog, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia; [Herzon, I] Univ Helsinki, Dept Agr Sci, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Viik, E] Agr Res Ctr, Saku, Estonia; [Elts, J] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Dept Zool, EE-50090 Tartu, Estonia; [Mand, M] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Tartu, Estonia	Marja, R (reprint author), Univ Gottingen, Grisebachstr 6, D-37077 Gottingen, Germany.	rmarja@ut.ee	Batary, Peter/A-2349-2008; Tscharntke, Teja/N-5123-2014; Elts, Jaanus/; Herzon, Iryna/	Batary, Peter/0000-0002-1017-6996; Elts, Jaanus/0000-0002-2672-4918; Herzon, Iryna/0000-0001-5758-4850	6	212	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2014	OCT	178					146	154	9		AR1LC	CCC:000343345700015					2019-04-10J	Buenau, KEHiller, TLTyre, AJ	Buenau, K. E.; Hiller, T. L.; Tyre, A. J.		MODELLING THE EFFECTS OF RIVER FLOW ON POPULATION DYNAMICS OF PIPING PLOVERS (CHARADRIUS MELODUS) AND LEAST TERNS (STERNULA ANTILLARUM) NESTING ON THE MISSOURI RIVER	RIVER RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	piping plover, least tern, flow, population model, habitat restoration, emergent sandbar, adaptive management	GREAT-PLAINS, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, HABITAT, ECOSYSTEMS, MANAGEMENT, SURVIVAL, PRODUCTIVITY, VIABILITY, SELECTION, DAKOTA	Reservoir management on the Missouri River has changed the flow regime that once created dynamic emergent sandbar habitat (ESH) for the interior least tern (Sternula antillarum) and piping plover (Charadrius melodus). High flows that create large amounts of ESH are now rare, but the remaining interannual variability in river stage has strong effects on the amount of ESH available for nesting shorebirds. The scarcity of habitat has led the United States Army Corps of Engineers to develop an adaptive management plan for the restoration of ESH to support nesting terns and plovers. We describe the stochastic simulation models of ESH, plover populations and tern populations used in the adaptive management process, and examine the effects of river flow on projected outcomes of habitat restoration. The population models are most sensitive to uncertainty in adult survival rates. Model validation against historical amounts of ESH and population sizes suggests the model is a reasonable predictor of future dynamics. Flow variability contributes as much uncertainty as parameter estimation error to plover model projections but negligible uncertainty to the tern model. Autocorrelation in flow between years has stronger effects on population outcomes than the intensity of habitat restoration effort does. We compared population outcomes after a habitat-creating flow with population outcomes following habitat restoration and found that large pulses of habitat creation produced similar or better outcomes in the short term than low but consistent habitat restoration. However, bird populations fared better in the long term with low levels of restoration when habitat-forming flows were rare. Copyright (C) 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	[Buenau, KE] Pacific NW Natl Lab, Marine Sci Lab, Sequim, WA 98382 USA; [Hiller, TL; Tyre, AJ] Univ Nebraska, Sch Nat Resources, Lincoln, NE USA; [Hiller, TL] Oregon Dept Fish & Wildlife, Wildlife Div, Salem, OR USA	Buenau, KE (reprint author), Pacific NW Natl Lab, Marine Sci Lab, 1529 W Sequim Bay Rd, Sequim, WA 98382 USA.	kate.buenau@pnnl.gov		Buenau, Kate/0000-0003-2156-7260	4	29	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1535-1459		RIVER RES APPL	River Res. Appl.	2014	OCT	30	8				964	975	12		AQ7YY	CCC:000343038000003					2019-04-10J	Segura, ACastano-Santamaria, JLaiolo, PObeso, JR	Segura, Amalia; Castano-Santamaria, Javier; Laiolo, Paola; Ramon Obeso, Jose		Divergent responses of flagship, keystone and resource-limited bio-indicators to forest structure	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Birds, Bioindicators, Capercaillie, Woodpeckers, Tits, Forest structure	CAPERCAILLIE TETRAO-UROGALLUS, HOLE-NESTING BIRDS, OLD-GROWTH, DEAD WOOD, CANTABRIAN-CAPERCAILLIE, AVIAN BIODIVERSITY, IBERIAN PENINSULA, TROPICAL FOREST, TREE DIVERSITY, BEECH FORESTS	Bio-indicators are often proposed to set conservation priorities in forest habitat owing to the difficulties of determining forest intrinsic ecological value. Here, we tested the efficacy of a number of potential bird indicator groups in monitoring beech Fagus sylvatica forest status by analyzing their associations with the spatial and structural variables of forest vegetation that indicate key ecological patterns and processes. The density of cavity nesting birds, indicating the presence of limited forest resources (resource-limited indicators), was influenced by tree species diversity, vertical species mingling and diameter, parameters reflecting maturity, gap-dynamic processes, as well as resource and shelter availability. Heterogeneity in shrub species composition, another parameter depending on forest dynamics, was positively associated with the occurrence of Capercaillie, a "flagship" species for forest conservation. The presence of woodpeckers, a "keystone" group that provides shelter and foraging substrate to other organisms, was positively affected by the basal area of standing dead trees that is indirectly associated with natural nutrient availability. These findings suggest that single indicators fail to provide a complete assessment of forest status, and their use in monitoring or managing forest ecosystem need to be contextualized to specific ecological patterns. The combined use of several indicators, representing various taxa, functions and life histories, appears to be preferable, and is logistically feasible if these can be surveyed together. Several indicators would likely display a wider range of sensitivities to the modification of natural processes and permit more comprehensive tracking of forest dynamics than single flagship, keystone or resource-limited indicators.	[Segura, A; Castano-Santamaria, J; Laiolo, P; Obeso, JR] Univ Oviedo, Res Unit Biodivers UO CSIC PA, Mieres 33600, Spain	Segura, A (reprint author), Univ Oviedo, Res Unit Biodivers UO CSIC PA, Campus Mieres,Edificio Invest 5 Planta, Mieres 33600, Spain.	amaliasegura@gmail.com; paola.laiolo@csic.es	Laiolo, Paola/B-6566-2014	Laiolo, Paola/0000-0002-2009-6797	0	55	SPRINGER JAPAN KK	TOKYO	CHIYODA FIRST BLDG EAST, 3-8-1 NISHI-KANDA, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 101-0065, JAPAN	http://www.springer.com	0912-3814		ECOL RES	Ecol. Res.	2014	SEP	29	5				925	936	12		AP6WO	CCC:000342219200015					2019-04-10J	Wiebe, KL	Wiebe, Karen L.		Responses of cavity-nesting birds to fire: testing a general model with data from the Northern Flicker	ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	cavity nesters, Colaptes auratus, fire, nest density, reproductive success, Riske Creek, British Columbia, Canada, wildfire, woodpecker	PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, COLAPTES-AURATUS, CRITICAL RESOURCE, PRESCRIBED FIRE, CLIMATE-CHANGE, BOREAL FOREST, BURN SEVERITY, WOODPECKER, MANAGEMENT, SURVIVAL	Census-based studies document changes in population size of animal species in response to wildfires, but mechanisms involving behavior of individuals and the effects on reproductive success are usually unknown. I developed a conceptual model explaining the persistence of cavity-nesting birds on the landscape after fires depending on carrying capacity (food supply) of the habitat and the philopatry and territoriality of the species. The breeding density, nest site characteristics, and reproductive success of Northern Flickers Colaptes auratus was studied before and after low-to moderate-severity fires on replicated plots. The density and spatial distribution of nests did not change in a consistent way after fires, but the rates of cavity excavation increased and characteristics of nest sites changed as such decay class of the tree. Laying dates were delayed and clutches were smaller in freshly excavated vs. reused cavities on the burned sites. Breeding philopatry caused a shift to older age classes in the population. Depredation of nests by small mammals increased during the first three years after fires, reducing the number of young produced per nest attempt on burned plots. The study shows that, even when fire does not reduce the density of breeding pairs, there may be detrimental effects detected only by monitoring the behavior and reproduction of individuals.	Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Biol, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5E2, Canada	Wiebe, KL (reprint author), Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Biol, 112 Sci Pl, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5E2, Canada.	karen.wiebe@usask.ca			4	53	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	0012-9658		ECOLOGY	Ecology	2014	SEP	95	9				2537	2547	11	10.1890/13-1711.1	AP8PF	CCC:000342340200016					2019-04-10J	Peters, KGerowitt, B	Peters, Kristian; Gerowitt, Barbel		Response of the two rare arable weed species Lithospermum arvense and Scandix pecten-veneris to climate change conditions	PLANT ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Climate change, Conservation, Phenotypic plasticity, Rare weed traits, Flowering time, Biomass, Seed production	FUNCTIONAL-GROUP APPROACH, GLOBAL CHANGE, LAND-USE, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, PLANT-COMMUNITIES, RANGE SHIFTS, FLORA, BIODIVERSITY, TEMPERATURE, VEGETATION	Rare weeds are currently under pressure due to intensifying arable management practices, and as a consequence of climate change, these practices will likely become even more intensive, together with a greater uniformity of land use. As a result, ecological stresses will increase for most species of rare weeds, in some cases leading to their further decline or even extinction. Moreover, climate change will alter the suitability of the environment for many plants, since average temperatures are predicted to increase and precipitation extremes to become more common. For most arable weed species it is unclear, whether the anticipated changes in environmental conditions are disadvantageous or beneficial. Little is known about specific biological responses of rare weeds to climate changes, and this study attempts to close some of these knowledge gaps. Here, the rare arable weed Lithospermum arvense and the endangered arable species Scandix pecten-veneris were investigated with regard to the effects of higher temperature and different crop densities on flowering time, shoot development, plant height, dry mass and seed production. Semi-field experiments were conducted with winter wheat crop for 3 years, involving 48 climate cages, in which every second was a variant of warmer temperature and contrasting crop density. We observed that S. pecten-veneris flowered earlier under warmer conditions and had fewer seeds and less biomass in the dense wheat crop compared to control conditions, while L. arvense grew taller, it produced fewer seeds in the high density crop. We suggest that such data concerning the biological responses of weeds can improve the precision of bioclimatic distribution models. Finally, we discuss strategies, such as relocation or non-intrusive management practices, for preventing further disappearances of rare arable weeds. Our results should be of considerable interest for the fields of plant ecology, biodiversity research and conservation.	[Peters, K; Gerowitt, B] Univ Rostock, Fac Agr & Environm Sci, Crop Hlth, D-18051 Rostock, Germany	Peters, K (reprint author), Univ Rostock, Fac Agr & Environm Sci, Crop Hlth, Satower Str 48, D-18051 Rostock, Germany.	kristian.peters@uni-rostock.de		Peters, Kristian/0000-0002-4321-0257	5	52	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	1385-0237		PLANT ECOL	Plant Ecol.	2014	SEP	215	9				1013	1023	11		AP4TZ	CCC:000342073000007					2019-04-10J	Hutto, RLFlesch, ADFylling, MA	Hutto, Richard L.; Flesch, Aaron D.; Fylling, Megan A.		A bird's-eye view of forest restoration: Do changes reflect success?	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Forest restoration, Bird community, Ecological indicators, Ecological effects monitoring, Restoration success, Ordination	DRY FORESTS, FIRE, WILDFIRES, SEVERITY, USA	To understand the ecological effects of forest restoration treatments on several old-growth forest stands in the Flathead National Forest of western Montana, USA, we surveyed birds at 72 points in treatment and control stands, and at more than 50 points in each of five potential reference stand conditions. We used a Before-After/Control-Impact design to assess treatment effects based on data collected 3 years before and 2 years after treatment. We also examined the similarity in bird community composition among all stand types by using a nonmetric multidimensional scaling approach. Relative abundances of only a few bird species changed significantly as a result of restoration treatments, and these changes were characterized largely by declines in the abundances of a few species associated with more mesic, dense-forest conditions, and not by increases in the abundances of species associated with more xeric, old-growth reference stand conditions. Thus, bird communities in treated stands were more similar to those in untreated stands of the same forest type than to those found in any of the potential old-growth reference stands. Although more time may be required for some bird species to respond to treatments, our results suggest that treatment plot sizes were either too small to affect bird communities or that the forest type selected for treatment was not within the range of forest types that are well suited for this type of forest restoration. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Hutto, RL; Flesch, AD] Univ Montana, Div Biol Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Fylling, MA] Univ Montana, Avian Sci Ctr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA	Hutto, RL (reprint author), Univ Montana, Div Biol Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA.	hutto@mso.umt.edu			4	50	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	SEP	327					1	9	9		AN8KJ	CCC:000340852800001					2019-04-10J	Hartel, THanspach, JAbson, DJMathe, OMoga, CIFischer, J	Hartel, Tibor; Hanspach, Jan; Abson, David J.; Mathe, Orsolya; Moga, Cosmin Ioan; Fischer, Joern		Bird communities in traditional wood-pastures with changing management in Eastern Europe	BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Scattered trees, Grazing, Dead trees, Shrub, Traditional cultural landscape, Conservation, Biodiversity, Romania	SPECIES RICHNESS, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPES, FARMLAND, HABITAT, TRAITS, SYSTEM, FUTURE, FOREST, POLAND	Wood-pastures are fragile ecosystems because they were formed by, and depend on specific, low-intensity multifunctional management. Although their ecological and cultural significance is high, wood-pastures are rapidly deteriorating all over Europe, mainly due to changing land use. We still lack a basic understanding of the ecological value of wood-pastures, and in which features they differ from other landscape elements. In this paper we investigated the ecological value of wood-pastures for passerine birds by (i) comparing bird assemblages of wood-pastures with those of closed forests and open pastures and (ii) exploring the relationships between variables describing wood-pastures and species traits of the bird assemblages. Our study region (Southern Transylvania, Romania) provides a unique opportunity to understand the importance of a traditional cultural and ecological environment for many different organisms. Wood-pastures had a higher overall number of bird species, and a higher spatial turnover in bird community composition than closed forests and open pastures. We found significant associations between bird species traits and habitat structural elements in wood-pastures such as large trees, oak- and pear trees and shrubs. Our findings suggest that traditional wood-pastures in Southern Transylvania have distinct and rich passerine bird communities. This richness is inextricably linked to the multifunctional, low-intensity land use traditionally applied in the wood-pastures that promotes high niche diversity. For effective conservation of the biodiversity of wood-pastures, a detailed understanding is needed of how different management regimes may influence the key structural elements of wood-pastures relevant for biodiversity and these should be protected.	[Hartel, T; Mathe, O] Sapientia Hungarian Univ Transylvania, Fac Sci & Arts, Dept Environm Studies, Cluj Napoca, Romania; [Hartel, T; Hanspach, J; Fischer, J] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Fac Sustainabil, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany; [Abson, DJ] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, FuturES Res Ctr, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany; [Moga, CI] Ecotransilvania Assoc, Sighisoara, Romania	Hartel, T (reprint author), Sapientia Hungarian Univ Transylvania, Fac Sci & Arts, Dept Environm Studies, Cluj Napoca, Romania.	hartel.tibor@gmail.com	Fischer, Joern/C-6625-2012; Abson, David/	Fischer, Joern/0000-0003-3187-8978; Abson, David/0000-0003-3755-785X	5	46	ELSEVIER GMBH, URBAN & FISCHER VERLAG	JENA	OFFICE JENA, P O BOX 100537, 07705 JENA, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	1439-1791		BASIC APPL ECOL	Basic Appl. Ecol.	2014	AUG	15	5				385	395	11		AO5BI	CCC:000341355200003					2019-04-10J	Tingley, MWWilkerson, RLBond, MLHowell, CASiegel, RB	Tingley, Morgan W.; Wilkerson, Robert L.; Bond, Monica L.; Howell, Christine A.; Siegel, Rodney B.		Variation in home-range size of Black-backed Woodpeckers	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Black-backed Woodpecker, burned forest, fire, home range, overlap, Picoides arcticus, snag basal area, space use	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, UTILIZATION DISTRIBUTIONS, PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, CONIFER FORESTS, KERNEL METHODS, BOREAL FOREST, HABITAT USE, SPACE-USE, SELECTION, FIRE	The Black-backed Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus) is a species of conservation concern that is strongly associated with recently burned forests. Black-backed Woodpeckers are known to have variable home-range sizes, yet the ecological factors related to this variation have not been adequately explored and may hold insights into the natural history of the species and the management of its habitat. During 2011 and 2012, we radio-tracked Black-backed Woodpeckers nesting in 3 forested areas of California that burned between 2 and 5 years before the initiation of tracking. Among 15 individuals with robust tracking data, we found that home-range size varied by an order of magnitude, from 24.1 to 304.1 ha, as measured by movement-based kernel estimation. Using an information-theoretic approach, we evaluated the functional relationship between snag basal area an a priori key resource and home-range size, additionally controlling for sex, age, and years since fire as covariates. We found that snag basal area alone best predicted home-range size, explaining 54-62% of observed variation. As snag basal area increased, home-range sizes exponentially decreased. This relationship held true both with and without the inclusion of 3 individuals that nested in burned forest yet foraged predominantly outside the fire perimeter in unburned forest. Snag basal area, unlike other potential influences on home-range size, is an attribute that forest managers can directly influence. We describe a quantitative relationship between home-range size and snag basal area that forest managers can use to predict Black-backed Woodpecker pair density in burned forests and assess the likely population consequences of specific harvest treatments. Given that the birds in our study, foraging primarily in burned forest, all had home ranges with	[Tingley, MW] Princeton Univ, Woodrow Wilson Sch, Princeton, NJ 08544 USA; [Tingley, MW; Wilkerson, RL; Bond, ML; Siegel, RB] Inst Bird Populat, Point Reyes Stn, CA USA; [Howell, CA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Vallejo, CA USA	Tingley, MW (reprint author), Princeton Univ, Woodrow Wilson Sch, Princeton, NJ 08544 USA.	morgan.tingley@uconn.edu	Bond, Monica/E-3161-2013; Tingley, Morgan/	Bond, Monica/0000-0001-8500-6564; Tingley, Morgan/0000-0002-1477-2218	3	52	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2014	AUG	116	3				325	340	16		AO3JD	CCC:000341224600004					2019-04-10J	Schneider, SCMiller, JR	Schneider, Sarah C.; Miller, James R.		Response of avian communities to invasive vegetation in urban forest fragments	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	avian communities, forest fragments, habitat selection, invasive plants, urbanization	BUCKTHORN RHAMNUS-CATHARTICA, UNITED-STATES, RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT, EUROPEAN BUCKTHORN, BREEDING BIRDS, NATIVE PRAIRIE, NEST PREDATION, EXOTIC SHRUBS, HABITAT, GRADIENT	Proliferation of invasive plants in forest understories throughout North America has prompted restoration efforts focused on removal of invasive vegetation. Although the negative impacts of invasives on native plant communities are well documented, effects on forest bird communities remain largely unknown. To address this issue, we examined the response of avian communities to invasive plants in forest fragments across 4 counties in northeastern Illinois, a region characterized by extensive urbanization. We surveyed breeding bird communities in 46 forest plots representing a gradient in abundance of invasive woody plants. We quantified vegetation structure and composition within plots, as well as landscape context. Exotic trees and shrubs were present on all but 3 plots. Although native trees were common, native species represented <7% of total stem density of shrubs. Measures of invasion were weakly correlated with those representing urbanization, yet broad-scale measures of urbanization such as building density and urban cover were strongly associated with avian community structure. At finer scales, measures of invasion were important predictors of the relative abundance of birds in several nesting and foraging guilds. Shrub nesters showed a positive response to invasive vegetation, whereas the relative abundance of aerial salliers and ground nesters decreased with increased proportions of invasive trees. Because restoration strategies aimed at the complete removal of invasive shrubs could diminish habitat quality for some species, thinning of understory vegetation or the removal of invasive trees may confer the greatest benefits to avian communities when few native understory plants are present.	[Schneider, SC; Miller, JR] Univ Illinois Urban Champaign, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Champaign, IL 61820 USA; [Miller, JR] Univ Illinois Urban Champaign, Program Ecol Evolut & Conservat Biol, Champaign, IL USA	Miller, JR (reprint author), Univ Illinois Urban Champaign, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Champaign, IL 61820 USA.	jrmillr@illinois.edu			8	106	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2014	AUG	116	3				459	471	13	10.1650/CONDOR-13-009R1.1	AO3JD	CCC:000341224600014					2019-04-10J	Loman, ZGRiffell, SKWheat, BRMiller, DAMartin, JAVilella, FJ	Loman, Zachary G.; Riffell, Samuel K.; Wheat, Bradley R.; Miller, Darren A.; Martin, James A.; Vilella, Francisco J.		Breeding bird community response to establishing intercropped switchgrass in intensively-managed pine stands	BIOMASS & BIOENERGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	BIOTECHNOLOGY & APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology	Biofuel feedstock production, Intensive forestry, Intercropping, Mississippi, Panicum virgaturn, Early successional habitat	REED CANARY-GRASS, LAND-USE CHANGE, BIOFUEL PRODUCTION, HARVESTING SWITCHGRASS, PHALARIS-ARUNDINACEA, HIERARCHICAL-MODELS, BIOMASS FEEDSTOCKS, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, SITE PREPARATION, UNITED-STATES	Intercropping switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) between tree rows within young pine (Pinus spp.) plantations is a potential method to generate lignocellulosic biofuel feedstocks within intensively managed forests. Intensively managed pine supports a diverse avian assemblage potentially affected by establishment and maintenance of an annual biomass feed-stock via changes in plant communities, dead wood resources, and habitat structure. We sought to understand how establishing switchgrass on an operational scale affects bird communities within intercropped plantations as compared to typical intensively managed loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) forest. We conducted breeding bird point counts using distance sampling for three years (2011-2013) following establishment of intercropped switchgrass stands (6 replicates), traditionally-managed pine plantations, and switchgrass-only plots (0.1 km(2) minimum) in Kemper Co., MS. We detected 59 breeding bird species from 11,195 detections. Neotropical migrants and forest-edge associated species were less abundant in intercropped plots than controls the first two years after establishment and more abundant in year three. Short distance migrants and residents were scarce in intercropped and control plots initially, and did not differ between these two treatments in any year. Species associated with pine-grass habitat structure were less abundant initially in intercropped plots, but converged with pine controls in subsequent years. Switchgrass monocultures provided minimal resources for birds. If songbird conservation is a management priority, managers should consider potential reductions of some breeding birds for one to two years following intercropping. It is unclear how these relationships may change outside the breeding season and as stands age. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Loman, ZG; Riffell, SK; Wheat, BR; Martin, JA] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Aquaculture, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Miller, DA] Weyerhaeuser NR Co, Columbus, MS 39704 USA; [Vilella, FJ] US Geol Survey, Mississippi Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA	Loman, ZG (reprint author), Mississippi State Univ, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Aquaculture, POB 9690, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA.	zloman@cfr.msstate.edu; sriffell@cfr.msstate.edu; brarwhea@gmail.com; darren.miller@weyerhaeusen.com; jmartin@cfr.msstate.edu; fvilella@cfr.msstate.edu			1	16	PERGAMON-ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0961-9534		BIOMASS BIOENERG	Biomass Bioenerg.	2014	AUG	67					201	211	11		AN1JX	CCC:000340339700022					2019-04-10J	Dittmar, EMCimprich, DASperry, JHWeatherhead, PJ	Dittmar, Erika M.; Cimprich, David A.; Sperry, Jinelle H.; Weatherhead, Patrick J.		Habitat Selection by Juvenile Black-Capped Vireos Following Independence from Parental Care	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	endangered species, habitat use, juvenile movements, juvenile songbirds, post-breeding, post-fledging, radio-telemetry, riparian, Vireo atricapilla	OVENBIRDS SEIURUS-AUROCAPILLA, TEMPERATE FORESTS, SURVIVAL, RIPARIAN, VEGETATION, MOVEMENTS, BIRDS, ROBINS, STREAM, COVER	If differences in ecological requirements result in juvenile birds using different habitats from breeding birds, then habitat management to protect those birds must protect both breeding and post-breeding habitats. We examined habitat selection by juvenile black-capped vireos (Vireo atricapilla) following their independence from parental care, in 2010-2013 on Fort Hood Military Reservation in central Texas, USA. The black-capped vireo is a federally endangered species that nests almost exclusively in shrub vegetation, but previous anecdotal observations indicate that juveniles may prefer riparian vegetation. We used mist-net capture rates and radio-telemetry to determine relative abundance of juvenile vireos across habitats, to quantify movement patterns and habitat selection, and to investigate how vegetation density and arthropod abundance influenced habitat selection. We captured juveniles at similar rates in shrub and riparian vegetation. Radio telemetry data indicated that juveniles selected riparian vegetation over most other available vegetation types, and tended to stay in riparian vegetation upon arrival. Juveniles selected areas characterized by more canopy cover, denser foliage, and more arthropods. Riparian vegetation provides this combination of features more than other vegetation types, indicating that cover and food are the basis for habitat selection by juveniles. Our results indicate that habitat conservation strategies for black-capped vireos should include protection of riparian vegetation near breeding areas, and more generally, that avian conservation strategies that focus only on breeding areas may potentially overlook other key habitats. (c) 2014 The Wildlife Society.	[Dittmar, EM; Sperry, JH; Weatherhead, PJ] Univ Illinois, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Cimprich, DA] Environm Div, Ft Hood, TX 76544 USA; [Sperry, JH] Engineer Res & Dev Ctr, Champaign, IL 61826 USA	Dittmar, EM (reprint author), Univ Illinois, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, W-519 Turner Hall,1102 S Goodwin Ave, Urbana, IL 61801 USA.	erikadittmar@yahoo.com			2	49	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2014	AUG	78	6				1005	1011	7		AN0TN	CCC:000340297000007					2019-04-10J	Touihri, MVillard, MACharfi, F	Touihri, Moez; Villard, Marc-Andre; Charfi, Faouzia		Cavity-nesting birds show threshold responses to stand structure in native oak forests of northwestern Tunisia	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Conservation targets, Ecological thresholds, Mediterranean forest, Woodpeckers, Dead wood, Forest harvesting	DEAD WOOD, HOLM OAK, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, MEDITERRANEAN LANDSCAPES, QUANTITATIVE TARGETS, HABITAT THRESHOLDS, SPECIES RICHNESS, COMMUNITIES, MANAGEMENT, WOODPECKER	The detection of thresholds in forest bird response to gradients in forest alteration is a powerful approach to quantify their ecological requirements and to develop evidence-based targets for conservation. For this purpose, we analyzed the response of 31 forest bird species to a gradient in forest alteration by human activities (e.g. fire; grazing; firewood collection) in the Kroumirie region of northwestern Tunisia. We surveyed forest birds using point counts at 48 stations located throughout Feija National Park. From a data set of 12 vegetation variables, we obtained a gradient in forest alteration using a principal component analysis. Then, we modeled the probability of detection of bird species along this gradient using logistic regression. We selected the five most sensitive species as target species as indicated by the area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC). Then, we quantified thresholds in their probability of detection as a function of four habitat structure variables: density of large-diameter trees (dbh > 30 cm), canopy closure, density of snags, and downed woody material.Nineteen of 31 species exhibited a significant response to forest alteration (PCA1), including 7 positive and 12 negative responses. Among these, the five best models (AUC > 0.8) corresponded to Levaillant's Woodpecker (Picus vaillantii), Great Spotted Woodpecker (Dendrocopos major), Lesser Spotted Woodpecker (Dendrocops minor), Short-toed Treecreeper (Certhia brachydactyla), and Atlas Flycatcher (Ficedula speculgera). On the basis of their threshold values, we recommend to protect stands with densities of large-diameter trees of at least 650 stems ha(-1), and 207 stems ha(-1) of snags, to meet the structural requirements (90% probability of detection) of the most demanding species, respectively Levaillant's Woodpecker and Atlas Flycatcher. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Touihri, M; Charfi, F] Univ Tunis El Manar, Fac Sci Tunis, Unite Rech Bioecol Anim & Systemat Evolut US11 UR, Tunis 2092, Tunisia; [Villard, MA] Univ Moncton, Dept Biol, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9, Canada	Touihri, M (reprint author), 6 Rue Beji Massoudi, Ariana 2080, Tunisia.	mzti1981@gmail.com	Touihri, Moez/P-8264-2014	Touihri, Moez/0000-0002-4487-5242	2	31	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	AUG	325					1	7	7		AL4UF	CCC:000339129600001					2019-04-10J	Haythorpe, KMBurke, DSulikowski, D	Haythorpe, Kathryn M.; Burke, Darren; Sulikowski, Danielle		The native versus alien dichotomy: relative impact of native noisy miners and introduced common mynas	BIOLOGICAL INVASIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Aggression, Manorina melanocephala, Species abundance, Sturnus tristis	MANORINA-MELANOCEPHALA, EASTERN AUSTRALIA, URBAN BIRD, INTERSPECIFIC COMPETITION, ACRIDOTHERES-TRISTIS, HABITAT USE, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITIES	Human activity can dramatically affect biodiversity, often by introducing non-native species, or by increasing the abundance of a small number of native species. Management strategies aimed at conserving biodiversity need to be informed by the actual impacts of highly abundant species, whether native or introduced. In this study we examined characteristics of two bird species, introduced common mynas and native noisy miners, both of which are highly abundant in urbanised areas along the East coast of Australia. Current managerial practices have a strong focus on eradication of common mynas, while noisy miners are largely ignored. However, in this study noisy miners were found in a broader range of habitats, and in greater abundance, than common mynas; displayed more aggressive behaviour; and were linked to a decline in the diversity and abundance of other species where common mynas were not. We suggest that the adaptability of a species and the variety of habitats it can colonise may be a better predictor of its potential impact, than whether it is native or introduced.	[Haythorpe, KM; Sulikowski, D] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Psychol, Bathurst, NSW 2795, Australia; [Burke, D] Univ Newcastle, Sch Psychol, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia	Haythorpe, KM (reprint author), Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Psychol, Panorama Ave, Bathurst, NSW 2795, Australia.	kathryn.haythorpe@gmail.com	Sulikowski, Danielle/A-9949-2013	Sulikowski, Danielle/0000-0001-5574-7054	1	49	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	1387-3547		BIOL INVASIONS	Biol. Invasions	2014	AUG	16	8				1659	1674	16		AK5DU	CCC:000338445500010					2019-04-10J	King, DISchlossberg, S	King, David I.; Schlossberg, Scott		Synthesis of the conservation value of the early-successional stage in forests of eastern North America	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird, Conservation, Habitat, Management, Shrubland, Succession	NORTHEASTERN UNITED-STATES, SOUTHERN NEW-ENGLAND, BIRD SPECIES-DIVERSITY, SPRUCE-FIR FORESTS, SHRUBLAND BIRDS, NEW-HAMPSHIRE, HABITAT USE, REGENERATING CLEARCUTS, WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS, NATURAL DISTURBANCES	As a result of changes in natural and anthropogenic disturbance regimes, the extent of early-successional forest across much of eastern North American is near historic lows, and continues to decline. This has caused many scientists to identify the conservation of early-successional species as a high priority. In this synthesis, we discuss the conservation implications of this loss of early-successional habitats using examples from the literature on songbirds. Early-successional "shrubland" bird species require conditions and resources present in recently disturbed sites. These conditions are ephemeral and change rapidly over time as sites become dominated by later-seral species. Historical disturbance regimes such as wind-throw, fire and flooding have been altered or suppressed in eastern forests through human activity such as conversion of forests to younger aged stands more resistant to wind, fire suppression and mesophication of fire-adapted communities, and suppression of beaver activity and flooding. Furthermore, anthropogenic disturbance has shifted over much of the region to types of land use that provide less shrubland habitat of lower quality than historically. Despite scientific evidence in support of this concern, there is still misunderstanding about the role of disturbance in maintaining biodiversity, and public opposition to management remains a challenge to conserving these communities. Contemporary approaches use natural disturbance regimes to inform management practices that employ historical agents where possible or surrogates when necessary to achieve desired future conditions defined on the basis of regional population or community status. Conservation of early-successional communities occurs within the context of other potentially conflicting ecological values, such as the conservation and enhancement of biologically mature forest. Recent findings, however, show shrubland habitat can augment diversity in forested landscapes by providing seasonal resources for mature-forest species, such as food or predator-free space for juvenile forest songbirds that seek out early-successional habitats during the transition to independence. Balancing the conservation of early-successional shrubland species with other, sometimes conflicting values is an active area of current conservation research. In some cases the conservation of shrubland birds can be coordinated with commercial activities like silviculture or maintenance of infrastructure (e.g. powerline corridors), although our work indicates that deliberate efforts expressly directed at conservation of early-successional shrubland species are more effective. Published by Elsevier B.V.	[King, DI] US Forest Serv, USDA, No Res Stn, Amherst, MA USA; [Schlossberg, S] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Environm Conservat, Amherst, MA 01003 USA	King, DI (reprint author), Univ Massachusetts, 201 Holdsworth Nat Resources Ctr, Amherst, MA 01003 USA.	dking@fs.fed.us			1	104	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	JUL	324					186	195	10		AL4UE	CCC:000339129500022					2019-04-10J	Stanton, RAKesler, DCThompson, FR	Stanton, Richard A., Jr.; Kesler, Dylan C.; Thompson, Frank R., III		Resource configuration and abundance affect space use of a cooperatively breeding resident bird	AUK			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	home range size, optimal foraging theory, resource selection, Sitta pusilla, utilization distributions	RED-COCKADED WOODPECKERS, BROWN-HEADED NUTHATCHES, HOME-RANGE, HABITAT SELECTION, UTILIZATION DISTRIBUTIONS, MODEL, SCALE, DISPERSAL, PATTERNS, GEOMETRY	Movement and space use of birds is driven by activities associated with acquiring and maintaining access to critical resources. Thus, the spatial configuration of resources within home ranges should influence bird movements, and resource values should be relative to their locations. We radio-tracked 22 Brown-headed Nuthatches (Sitta pusilla) and related their space use and home range sizes to available resources while taking nest site locations into account. We developed utilization distributions (UDs) from nuthatch locations, and treated the area of each 95% isopleth as home range size and the height of the UD as relative probability of use. We fit models relating home range size to mean resource measures within home ranges, and used lognormal regression to relate intensity of use to resource metrics at random points by ranking linear mixed models. Nuthatch home ranges typically had two centers of activity. Areas of high use were associated with the density of recently killed snags (likely a foraging resource), recent prescribed fire, pine dominance, low tree stocking rates, and grassy herbaceous cover. Home ranges were generally large (median: 7.1 ha; range: 0.3-47.6 ha), and smaller home range sizes were associated with pine dominance and higher nest snag density. Predicted home range sizes decreased by 77% and 69%, respectively, when percent pine and nest snag density were maximized. Our results illustrate that movement decisions within home ranges are driven by both the availability and spatial distribution of resources, while ongoing savannah-woodland management is providing resources that are used by Brown-headed Nuthatches.	[Stanton, RA] Univ Florida, Sch Nat Resources & Environm, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Kesler, DC] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO USA; [Thompson, FR] USDA Forest Serv, No Res Stn, Columbia, MO USA	Stanton, RA (reprint author), Univ Florida, Sch Nat Resources & Environm, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA.	richardastanton@ufl.edu		Stanton, Richard/0000-0001-9187-2186	0	28	AMER ORNITHOLOGISTS UNION	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA	http://www.nmnh.si.edu/BIRDNET/AOU/index.html	0004-8038		AUK	AUK	2014	JUL	131	3				407	420	14		AM9UX	CCC:000340227600017					2019-04-10J	Ponce, CBravo, CAlonso, JC	Ponce, Carlos; Bravo, Carolina; Alonso, Juan Carlos		Effects of agri-environmental schemes on farmland birds: do food availability measurements improve patterns obtained from simple habitat models?	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agri-environmental scheme, agricultural intensification, biomass, habitat management, steppe birds, wildlife conservation	AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, POPULATION TRENDS, CENTRAL SPAIN, LANDSCAPE COMPLEXITY, BIODIVERSITY LOSS, SURVIVAL RATES, STUBBLE FIELDS, SET-ASIDE, LAND-USE, MANAGEMENT	Studies evaluating agri-environmental schemes (AES) usually focus on responses of single species or functional groups. Analyses are generally based on simple habitat measurements but ignore food availability and other important factors. This can limit our understanding of the ultimate causes determining the reactions of birds to AES. We investigated these issues in detail and throughout the main seasons of a bird's annual cycle (mating, postfledging and wintering) in a dry cereal farmland in a Special Protection Area for farmland birds in central Spain. First, we modeled four bird response parameters (abundance, species richness, diversity and "Species of European Conservation Concern" [SPEC]-score), using detailed food availability and vegetation structure measurements (food models). Second, we fitted new models, built using only substrate composition variables (habitat models). Whereas habitat models revealed that both, fields included and not included in the AES benefited birds, food models went a step further and included seed and arthropod biomass as important predictors, respectively, in winter and during the postfledging season. The validation process showed that food models were on average 13% better (up to 20% in some variables) in predicting bird responses. However, the cost of obtaining data for food models was five times higher than for habitat models. This novel approach highlighted the importance of food availability-related causal processes involved in bird responses to AES, which remained undetected when using conventional substrate composition assessment models. Despite their higher costs, measurements of food availability add important details to interpret the reactions of the bird community to AES interventions and thus facilitate evaluating the real efficiency of AES programs.	[Ponce, C; Bravo, C; Alonso, JC] CSIC, Museo Nacl Ciencias Nat, Dept Evolutionary Ecol, E-28006 Madrid, Spain	Ponce, C (reprint author), CSIC, Museo Nacl Ciencias Nat, Dept Evolutionary Ecol, Jose Gutierrez Abascal 2, E-28006 Madrid, Spain.	carlosp@mncn.csic.es	Alonso, Juan Carlos/C-9974-2012; Evolutionary Ecology, Ecologia Evolutiva/M-3553-2014	Alonso, Juan Carlos/0000-0003-0450-7434; 	3	50	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	2045-7758		ECOL EVOL	Ecol. Evol.	2014	JUL	4	14				2834	2847	14		AM8SB	CCC:000340146300004	25165523	DOAJ Gold, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Fujita, MSPrawiradilaga, DMYoshimura, T	Fujita, Motoko S.; Prawiradilaga, Dewi M.; Yoshimura, Tsuyoshi		Roles of fragmented and logged forests for bird communities in industrial Acacia mangium plantations in Indonesia	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Acacia mangium, Biodiversity, Habitat fragmentation, Landscape management, Industrial timber plantations, Sumatra	TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, CONSERVATION VALUE, SPECIES RICHNESS, BIODIVERSITY, ASSEMBLAGES, LANDSCAPE, DIVERSITY, SECONDARY, MALAYSIA, IMPACT	Industrial timber plantations severely impact biodiversity in Southeast Asia. Forest fragments survive within plantations, but their conservation value in highly deforested landscapes in Southeast Asia is poorly understood. In this study, we compared bird assemblages in acacia plantations and fragmented forests in South Sumatra to evaluate each habitat's potential conservation value. To clarify the impact of habitat change, we also analyzed the response of feeding guild composition. Five habitat types were studied: large logged forest (LLF), burnt logged forest (BLF), remnant logged forest (RLF), 4-year-old acacia plantation (AP4), and 1-year-old acacia plantation (AP1). Estimated species richness (Chao 2) was highest in LLF then AP4 and BLF, while AP1 and RLF had lower estimated species richness. Community composition was roughly divided into two groups by non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination: acacia plantation and logged forest. Sallying substrate-gleaning insectivores, such as drongos, broadbills, and some flycatchers, were restricted to LLF, whereas acacia plantation hosted many terrestrial frugivores, such as doves. Although fragmented forests in our study site lacked several common tropical forest species, these fragments provide an important habitat for some sallying and terrestrial insectivores. A network of small riparian remnant forests could be a complementary habitat for some species, while the conservation value of burnt forest might be low. In conclusion, the highly fragmented forests in plantations are suboptimal habitats for birds but are still very important, because large primary forest blocks have been nearly lost in the surrounding landscape.	[Fujita, MS] Kyoto Univ, Ctr Southeast Asian Studies, Sakyo Ku, Kyoto 6068501, Japan; [Prawiradilaga, DM] Indonesian Inst Sci, Biol Res Ctr, Cibinong 16911, Indonesia; [Yoshimura, T] Kyoto Univ, Res Inst Sustainable Humanosphere, Uji, Kyoto 6110011, Japan	Fujita, MS (reprint author), Kyoto Univ, Ctr Southeast Asian Studies, Sakyo Ku, 46 Shimoadachi, Kyoto 6068501, Japan.	fujita@cseas.kyoto-u.ac.jp; dewi005@lipi.go.id; tsuyoshi@rish.kyoto-u.ac.jp			3	31	SPRINGER JAPAN KK	TOKYO	CHIYODA FIRST BLDG EAST, 3-8-1 NISHI-KANDA, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 101-0065, JAPAN	http://www.springer.com	0912-3814		ECOL RES	Ecol. Res.	2014	JUL	29	4				741	755	15		AM2ZZ	CCC:000339721800023					2019-04-10J	Lewis, RJPakeman, RJAngus, SMarrs, RH	Lewis, Rob J.; Pakeman, Robin J.; Angus, Stewart; Marrs, Rob H.		Using compositional and functional indicators for biodiversity conservation monitoring of semi-natural grasslands in Scotland	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Biological diversity, CSR, Ellenberg, Functional traits, Land-use, Machair, NMDS, Revisitation, Temporal change	PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, LAND-USE CHANGE, NITROGEN DEPOSITION, EXTINCTION DEBT, CALCAREOUS GRASSLANDS, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITY, TRAITS, LANDSCAPE, VEGETATION	Compositional indicators (i.e. indices that focus on the identity of species, genes or phylogeny) have been widely used to estimate and monitor biodiversity, however, their use in combination with species and/or community functional characteristics remains limited. Using large-scale, spatio-temporal data, we use both compositional and functional indices to investigate land-use change impacts on the vegetation of a semi-natural grassland ecosystem (Machair) for fourteen regions in Scotland, UK. Our study aimed to identify national- and regional-scale temporal vegetation patterns, and through use of simple compositional and functional indices (e.g. Competitor, Stress, Ruderal and Ellenberg scores) link observed changes to agricultural intensification and/or land-use abandonment. Using linear-mixed modelling and nonmetric multi-dimensional scaling, we showed significant national and regional-scale changes in species composition over time. Increases in diversity, particularly gains in Machair grassland, identified several regions that may have benefited from past government incentivised schemes to protect the Machair, but which may also be suffering from an extinction lag. Shifts in plant functional signatures (CSR & Ellenberg values) identified varying degrees of internal (competition) and external (land-use) factors, highlighting several regions where biodiversity change could be linked to reduced disturbance (i.e. lower grazing intensity) or greater disturbance (i.e. land-use intensification). Our results demonstrate the utility of simple compositional and functional indices for monitoring biodiversity of semi-natural grasslands and identifying land-use drivers of change across different spatial scales. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Lewis, RJ; Pakeman, RJ] James Hutton Inst, Aberdeen AB15 8QH, Scotland; [Angus, S] Scottish Nat Heritage, Inverness IV3 8NW, Scotland; [Lewis, RJ; Marrs, RH] Univ Liverpool, Sch Environm Sci, Liverpool L69 3GP, Merseyside, England	Lewis, RJ (reprint author), Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Lai 40, EE-51005 Tartu, Estonia.	robert.lewis@ut.ee	Pakeman, Robin/P-7338-2015	Pakeman, Robin/0000-0001-6248-4133	7	108	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2014	JUL	175					82	93	12		AK7QS	CCC:000338623400010					2019-04-10J	Holcomb, EDDavis, CAFuhlendorf, SD	Holcomb, Elizabeth D.; Davis, Craig A.; Fuhlendorf, Samuel D.		Patch-burn management: Implications for conservation of avian communities in fire-dependent sagebrush ecosystems	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Artemisia filifolia, Cassin's sparrow, Chondestes grammacus, field sparrow, lark sparrow, Oklahoma, patch-burn management, Peucaea cassinii, sand sagebrush, Spizella pusilla	MOUNTAIN BIG SAGEBRUSH, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, PYRIC-HERBIVORY, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, SAND SAGEBRUSH, NEST SUCCESS, LANDSCAPE CHARACTERISTICS, JUNIPER ENCROACHMENT, SHRUBSTEPPE HABITATS, BIRD COMMUNITIES	Rangeland birds in the Southern High Plains, USA evolved within a context of fire and grazing (i.e., pyric herbivory), a disturbance regime that played a dominant role in shaping rangelands in this region but has been absent since the 1880s. A management technique known as patch-burn grazing was used to mimic the heterogeneity in vegetation created by the historical disturbance regime of fire and grazing in sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) rangelands. We compared nest survival of Cassin's sparrows (Peucaea cassinii), field sparrows (Spizella pusilla), and lark sparrows (Chondestes grammacus); species richness; and densities of 11 bird species between rangelands managed with patch-burn grazing and rangelands managed with traditional management (i.e., seasonal grazing) in Oklahoma from 2006 to 2008. Estimates of nest survival were similar between patch-burn and traditional pastures (Cassin's sparrows: 51% and 57%; field sparrows: 18% and 22%; and lark sparrows: 14% and 12%, patch-burn and traditional, respectively). Species richness was higher in patch-burn pastures compared to traditionally managed pastures. Densities of the majority of avian species (73%) were similar between treatments; however, lark sparrow densities were 5 times more abundant in patch-burn pastures and grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) and brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were >3 times more abundant on traditional pastures. Our results suggest that introducing patch-burn grazing management to sand sagebrush rangelands is not detrimental to nesting shrubland birds, and the creation of heterogeneity through patch-burn grazing can increase avian species diversity. Furthermore, some species such as lark sparrows may benefit from patch-burn grazing. Patch-burn management may be an important tool to assist in the recovery of biodiversity in this ecosystem. (c) 2014 The Wildlife Society.	[Holcomb, ED; Davis, CA; Fuhlendorf, SD] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA	Holcomb, ED (reprint author), Dept Forestry Wildlife & Fisheries, 274 Ellington PSB,2431 Joe Johnson Dr, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA.	edoxon@utk.edu			4	70	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2014	JUL	78	5				848	856	9		AJ8PB	CCC:000337967100010					2019-04-10J	Law, BSChidel, MBrassil, TTurner, GKathuria, A	Law, Bradley S.; Chidel, Mark; Brassil, Traecey; Turner, Graham; Kathuria, Amrit		Trends in bird diversity over 12 years in response to large-scale eucalypt plantation establishment: Implications for extensive carbon plantings	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biodiversity, Native plantation, Long-term monitoring, Birds, Eucalyptus, Noisy miner	SOUTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, FOREST LANDSCAPES, WOODLAND BIRDS, CONSERVATION, TREES, RESTORATION, ASSEMBLAGES, REMNANT, HABITAT, REVEGETATION	Large-scale plantations established for timber production or for carbon sequestration can dramatically transform landscapes, however little is known about the response of biodiversity. We report on trends in bird diversity during a 12 year longitudinal study on three large-scale plantations of locally indigenous eucalypts in northern New South Wales, Australia. The study began in a farmland mosaic and has continued to follow bird occupancy rates after the establishment of eucalypt plantations within the paddock areas. Bird surveys were undertaken at focal trees located in different classes of remnant vegetation, which became embedded within the plantations as well as in the plantation matrix itself. Reference sites were also located in adjacent blocks of forest. We found that species richness increased over time in the plantation matrix, as well as remnant vegetation embedded within the plantation (isolated trees, tree patches and remnants, but not riparian locations). When birds were classified as forest-dependent, forest-associated or mosaic generalist, the species richness of forest-associated birds increased and mosaic generalists decreased over time at selected remnant categories. Richness of forest-dependent birds did not change over time. After plantation establishment, bird composition at remnant locations gradually shifted towards that of forest, although all locations remained distinct from forest even after 11 years of plantation growth. The response of 36 individual species was assessed with 47% percent of species increasing over the 11 years and 31% of species declining. Notably the noisy miner, a hyper-aggressive species, decreased over time. We suggest a reduction in the occurrence of this species could be an important contributor to the increase in the diversity of smaller bird species. These include species of regional concern, such as the eastern yellow robin and the rufous whistler, which increased over the study period. Our results suggest that large-scale plantations of locally indigenous species contribute to ecological restoration of cleared landscapes. However, the plantation matrix after 11 years provided less suitable habitat than nearby forest as it supported fewer species, especially for birds that are characteristic of forest. Retention of remnant vegetation at the time of plantation establishment, including large isolated paddock trees, contributed considerably to the biodiversity present in the plantations and is likely to provide key refuge areas during any subsequent harvesting. Continued collection of longitudinal data are needed to describe changes through the full plantation rotation and harvest, while the extent to which other taxa respond to eucalypt plantation establishment also requires documentation. Crown Copyright (C) 2014 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Law, BS; Chidel, M; Brassil, T; Turner, G; Kathuria, A] NSW Primary Ind, Forest Sci Ctr, North Parramatta, NSW 2151, Australia	Law, BS (reprint author), NSW Primary Ind, Forest Sci Ctr, POB 242,153 Macquarie St, North Parramatta, NSW 2151, Australia.	brad.law@dpi.nsw.gov.au		Law, Bradley/0000-0002-3991-3865	5	47	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	JUN	322					58	68	11		AI2OP	CCC:000336698100007					2019-04-10J	Ruth, JMStanley, TRGordon, CE	Ruth, Janet M.; Stanley, Thomas R.; Gordon, Caleb E.		ASSOCIATIONS OF WINTERING BIRDS WITH HABITAT IN SEMIDESERT AND PLAINS GRASSLANDS IN ARIZONA	SOUTHWESTERN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		HOME-RANGE SIZE, HENSLOWS SPARROWS, AVIAN COMMUNITY, MOVEMENT PATTERNS, SOUTHERN TEXAS, POINT COUNTS, ABUNDANCE, MEXICO, FIRE, MIGRATION	We studied associations with winter habitat for seven species of birds, one species-group (eastern and western meadowlarks combined), and total sparrows at seven sites in the semidesert and plains grasslands of southeastern Arizona from 1999-2001, sampling with mist-nets and survey-transects. We measured structure and composition of vegetation, assessing vegetative differences among sites, and modeled associations between indices of avian abundance and six vegetative variables using generalized linear models. For all vegetative variables, there were significant differences among sites. Numbers of northern harriers (Circus cyaneus) were positively associated with total number of sparrows. Indices of abundance for individual species of birds were statistically correlated with various measures of structure and composition of vegetation. In particular, grasshopper (Ammodramus savannarum) and vesper (Pooecetes gramineus) sparrows were negatively associated with amount of bare ground; horned larks (Eremophila alpestris) were negatively associated with vertical grass density; Baird's sparrows (A. bairdii) were negatively associated with shrub density; meadowlarks (Sturnella magna and S. neglecta combined) were positively associated with native grass. Our results suggest that these species would benefit from management of habitat that affects the vegetative characteristics associated with their abundance.	[Ruth, JM] Univ New Mexico, US Geol Survey, Dept Biol, Ft Collins Sci Ctr,Arid Lands Field Stn, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA; [Stanley, TR] US Geol Survey, Ft Collins Sci Ctr, Ft Collins, CO 80526 USA; [Gordon, CE] Univ Arizona, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA	Ruth, JM (reprint author), Univ New Mexico, US Geol Survey, Dept Biol, Ft Collins Sci Ctr,Arid Lands Field Stn, MSC03 2020,1 Univ New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA.	janet_ruth@usgs.gov			1	18	SOUTHWESTERN ASSOC NATURALISTS	SAN MARCOS	SOUTHWEST TEXAS STATE UNIV, DEPT BIOLOGY, 601 UNIVERSITY DR, SAN MARCOS, TX 78666 USA		0038-4909		SOUTHWEST NAT	Southw. Natural.	2014	JUN	59	2				199	211	13		CC8YX	CCC:000350655600007					2019-04-10J	Gyug, LWHiggins, RJTodd, MAMeggs, JMLindgren, BS	Gyug, Les W.; Higgins, Robert J.; Todd, Melissa A.; Meggs, Jeff M.; Lindgren, B. Staffan		Dietary dependence of Williamson's Sapsucker nestlings on ants associated with dead and decaying wood in British Columbia	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH-REVUE CANADIENNE DE RECHERCHE FORESTIERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	ants, Camponotus, diet, Formicidae, Formica, myrmecophagy, Williamson's Sapsucker	HYMENOPTERA-FORMICIDAE, WOODPECKERS, DENSITIES, FORESTS	Williamson's Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus thyroideus (Cassin, 1852)) breeds primarily in managed forests in Canada. Its status as endangered will require reliable information to develop habitat management guidelines. Adults provision nestlings with ants gleaned from tree trunks, so we estimated the preferred nestling diet by comparing nestling fecal sac composition with the ant fauna collected in tree trunk traps. For ants, we determined nest densities and substrates by counts along transects within sapsucker nest areas. Ants made up 98% of >10 000 arthropods identified in Williamson's Sapsucker fecal sacs. Of 11 ant taxa available, Williamson's Sapsucker consumed six, of which two large-bodied ant taxa, carpenter ants of Camponotus subgenus Camponotus and ants of the Formica rufa species group, were preferred. Together these two taxa averaged 80% of the nestling diet by biomass and formed >48% of the nestling diet at every nest examined (n = 89). Preference varied regionally: west of the Okanagan Valley, only the two large-bodied ant taxa already mentioned were preferred, in the Okanagan-Boundary and East Kootenay regions, smaller bodied ants of the genus Lasius were also preferred, although these comprised = 5% of the nestling diet by biomass. Camponotus (Camponotus) spp. nests were 3.3 times more common in wood than soil, and the F. rufa species group were entirely dependent on dead or decaying wood for nest substrate. Given the dependence of Williamson's Sapsucker on these ants, retention and recruitment of dead and decaying wood should be considered a management priority for Williamson's Sapsucker breeding habitat.	[Gyug, LW] Okanagan Wildlife Consulting, West Kelowna, BC V4T 1T9, Canada; [Higgins, RJ] Thompson Rivers Univ, Williams Lake, BC V2G 1H7, Canada; [Todd, MA] BC Minist Forests Lands & Nat Resource Operat, Coast Area Res Sect, Nanaimo, BC V9T 6E9, Canada; [Meggs, JM] EDI Environm Dynam Inc, Unit 208A, Nanaimo, BC V9T 3L3, Canada; [Lindgren, BS] Univ No British Columbia, Nat Resources & Environm Studies Inst, Prince George, BC V2N 4Z9, Canada	Gyug, LW (reprint author), Okanagan Wildlife Consulting, 3130 Ensign Way, West Kelowna, BC V4T 1T9, Canada.	les_gyug@shaw.ca		Lindgren, B. Staffan/0000-0003-3581-2853	1	19	CANADIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING, NRC RESEARCH PRESS	OTTAWA	65 AURIGA DR, SUITE 203, OTTAWA, ON K2E 7W6, CANADA	http://www.nrcresearchpress.com	0045-5067		CAN J FOREST RES	Can. J. For. Res.-Rev. Can. Rech. For.	2014	JUN	44	6				628	637	10		AI7UL	CCC:000337105600009					2019-04-10J	Curran, MHellweg, SBeck, J	Curran, Michael; Hellweg, Stefanie; Beck, Jan		Is there any empirical support for biodiversity offset policy?	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	assemblage composition, biodiversity, ecological compensation, habitat banking, no net loss offsets, recovery, rehabilitation, restoration ecology, secondary growth, species similarity, undersampling	TROPICAL SECONDARY FORESTS, MODEL SELECTION, MULTIMODEL INFERENCE, RESTORATION ECOLOGY, SPECIES COMPOSITION, BEHAVIORAL ECOLOGY, BIRD COMMUNITIES, DIVERSITY, REVEGETATION, CONSERVATION	Biodiversity offsets are seen as a policy mechanism to balance development and conservation goals. Many offset schemes employ habitat restoration in one area to recreate biodiversity value that is destroyed elsewhere, assuming that recovery is timely and predictable. Recent research has challenged these assumptions on the grounds that restoration implies long time delays and a low certainty of success. To investigate these assertions, and to assess the strength of empirical support for offset policy, we used a meta-analytic approach to analyze data from 108 comparative studies of secondary growth (SG) and old-growth (OG) habitat (a total of 1228 SG sites and 716 OG reference sites). We extracted species checklists and calculated standardized response ratios for species richness, Fisher's alpha, Sorenson similarity, and Morisita-Horn similarity. We modeled diversity change with habitat age using generalized linear models and multi-model averaging, correcting for a number of potential explanatory variables. We tested whether (1) diversity of passively and actively restored habitat converges to OG values over time, (2) active restoration significantly accelerates this process, and (3) current offset policies are appropriate to the predicted uncertainties and time lags associated with restoration. The results indicate that in the best case, species richness converges to OG reference values within a century, species similarity (Sorenson) takes about twice as long, and assemblage composition (Morisita-Horn) up to an order of magnitude longer (hundreds to thousands of years). Active restoration significantly accelerates the process for all indices, but the inherently large time lags, uncertainty, and risk of restoration failure require offset ratios that far exceed what is currently applied in practice. Restoration offset policy therefore leads to a net loss of biodiversity, and represents an inappropriate use of the otherwise valuable tool of ecosystem restoration.	[Curran, M; Hellweg, S] ETH, Inst Environm Engn, Chair Ecol Syst Design, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland; [Beck, J] Univ Basel, Dept Environm Sci Biogeog, CH-4053 Basel, Switzerland	Curran, M (reprint author), ETH, Inst Environm Engn, Chair Ecol Syst Design, John von Neumann Weg 9, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.	curranm@ethz.ch	Beck, Jan/L-5659-2015; Xu Mingwen, Xu Mingwen/T-6734-2017; Hellweg, Stefanie/; Beck, Jan/	Hellweg, Stefanie/0000-0001-6376-9878; Beck, Jan/0000-0003-1170-4751	10	166	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2014	JUN	24	4				617	632	16	10.1890/13-0243.1	AI7XX	CCC:000337117400003	24988764				2019-04-10J	Ferenc, MSedlacek, OFuchs, R	Ferenc, Michal; Sedlacek, Ondrej; Fuchs, Roman		How to improve urban greenspace for woodland birds: site and local-scale determinants of bird species richness	URBAN ECOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Regression trees, City, Bird biodiversity, Vegetation structure, Urban green areas	BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, FRAGMENTED LANDSCAPE, HABITAT, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITY, AVIFAUNA, URBANIZATION, ASSOCIATIONS, ASSEMBLAGES, VARIABLES	Wooded habitats represent hotspots of urban biodiversity, however, urban development imposes pressure on biota in these refuges. Identification of the most influential habitat attributes and the role of local urban characteristics is crucial for proper decisions on management practices supporting biodiversity. We aimed to identify well manageable fine-scale habitat attributes to suggest specific, feasible and affordable management recommendations for green space in cities. We analysed species richness of woodland-associated bird communities and incidence of individual species at 290 sites in a wide variety of green areas scattered across the city of Prague, Czech Republic. Generalized linear mixed models (GLMM) and regression tree analyses were used to identify site-scale (100 m radius sampling sites) and local-scale (200 m and 500 m radius plots) habitat attributes shaping the bird communities at individual sites. Logistic regression was used to assess the responses of individual species to habitat characteristics. Our results imply that at the site scale, management practices should focus on maintenance and promoting species-diverse and older tree stands, with a mixture of coniferous and deciduous trees. Water-bodies and accompanying riparian habitats should be maintained and carefully managed to preserve high-quality remnants of natural vegetation. Presence of a few old trees (about 12 % of tree cover with DBH > 50 cm) or small urban standing water and watercourses enrich the bird community by at least two species. Species richness of woodland avifauna at particular sites is further supported by the total amount of tree cover in the surroundings, including scattered greenery of public spaces and private gardens. We conclude that proper management at site scale has the potential to increase biodiversity of the urban environment.	[Ferenc, M; Sedlacek, O] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Ecol, Fac Sci, CR-12844 Prague 2, Czech Republic; [Fuchs, R] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, CR-12844 Prague 2, Czech Republic; [Fuchs, R] Univ South Bohemia, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Ceske Budejovice 37005, Czech Republic	Sedlacek, O (reprint author), Charles Univ Prague, Dept Ecol, Fac Sci, Vinicna 7, CR-12844 Prague 2, Czech Republic.	zbrd@email.cz	Sedlacek, Ondrej/A-1667-2009; Ferenc, Michal/I-4205-2016	Ferenc, Michal/0000-0002-6730-7272	4	148	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	1083-8155		URBAN ECOSYST	Urban Ecosyst.	2014	JUN	17	2				625	640	16		AH8IY	CCC:000336382700018					2019-04-10J	St-Louis, VPidgeon, AMKuemmerle, TSonnenschein, RRadeloff, VCClayton, MKLocke, BABash, DHostert, P	St-Louis, Veronique; Pidgeon, Anna M.; Kuemmerle, Tobias; Sonnenschein, Ruth; Radeloff, Volker C.; Clayton, Murray K.; Locke, Brian A.; Bash, Dallas; Hostert, Patrick		Modelling avian biodiversity using raw, unclassified satellite imagery	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Life Sciences (LS)	MULTIDISCIPLINARY, EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Science & Technology - Other Topics; Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	avian habitat modelling, biodiversity conservation, Chihuahuan Desert, image texture, spectral mixture analysis, landsat	SPECTRAL MIXTURE ANALYSIS, SPECIES RICHNESS, TEXTURE ANALYSIS, SCALE PATTERNS, HABITAT, VEGETATION, CLASSIFICATION, INDEX, ABUNDANCE, SELECTION	Applications of remote sensing for biodiversity conservation typically rely on image classifications that do not capture variability within coarse land cover classes. Here, we compare two measures derived from unclassified remotely sensed data, a measure of habitat heterogeneity and a measure of habitat composition, for explaining bird species richness and the spatial distribution of 10 species in a semi-arid landscape of New Mexico. We surveyed bird abundance from 1996 to 1998 at 42 plots located in the McGregor Range of Fort Bliss Army Reserve. Normalized Difference Vegetation Index values of two May 1997 Landsat scenes were the basis for among-pixel habitat heterogeneity (image texture), and we used the raw imagery to decompose each pixel into different habitat components (spectral mixture analysis). We used model averaging to relate measures of avian biodiversity to measures of image texture and spectral mixture analysis fractions. Measures of habitat heterogeneity, particularly angular second moment and standard deviation, provide higher explanatory power for bird species richness and the abundance of most species than measures of habitat composition. Using image texture, alone or in combination with other classified imagery-based approaches, for monitoring statuses and trends in biological diversity can greatly improve conservation efforts and habitat management.	[St-Louis, V; Pidgeon, AM; Kuemmerle, T; Radeloff, VC] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Kuemmerle, T; Sonnenschein, R; Hostert, P] Humboldt Univ, Dept Geog, D-10099 Berlin, Germany; [Clayton, MK] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Stat, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Locke, BA; Bash, D] Directorate Environm, Ft Bliss, TX USA	St-Louis, V (reprint author), Univ Wisconsin, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA.	veronique.st-louis@state.mn.us	Radeloff, Volker/B-6124-2016; Kuemmerle, Tobias/B-4340-2008; Hostert, Patrick/	Radeloff, Volker/0000-0001-9004-221X; Kuemmerle, Tobias/0000-0002-9775-142X; Hostert, Patrick/0000-0002-5730-5484	2	43	ROYAL SOC	LONDON	6-9 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, LONDON SW1Y 5AG, ENGLAND	http://royalsocietypublishing.org/journals	0962-8436		PHILOS T R SOC B	Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B-Biol. Sci.	2014	MAY	369	1643			SI	30197	30197	10		AF3EN	CCC:000334594400008	24733952	Green Published, Bronze			2019-04-10J	Hovick, TJElmore, RDFuhlendorf, SD	Hovick, Torre J.; Elmore, R. Dwayne; Fuhlendorf, Samuel D.		Structural heterogeneity increases diversity of non-breeding grassland birds	ECOSPHERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Ammodramus leconteii, Calcarius pictus, fire-grazing interaction, Le Conte's Sparrow, nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), occupancy modeling, pyric herbivory, Smith's Longspur	FIRE-GRAZING INTERACTION, LE CONTES SPARROWS, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, RESTORING HETEROGENEITY, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, WINTERING SPARROWS, AFRICAN SAVANNA, CONSERVATION, COMMUNITIES, POPULATION	Grassland birds have experienced greater population declines than any other guild of birds in North America, and yet we know little about habitat use and the affects of management during their non-breeding period on wintering grounds. The paucity of information on wintering grassland birds limits our ability to develop effective conservation strategies. We investigated habitat use by the winter bird community in grasslands with restored heterogeneity resulting from the interactive effects of fire and grazing. We used 500 m line transects distributed across patches (i.e., <13, 13-24, and >24 months post disturbance) resulting from spring burning with growing season grazing (April-Sept) and quantified avian relative abundance, community structure, and probability of patch occupancy while accounting for imperfect detection. Grassland structure that resulted from the fire-grazing interaction created heterogeneity among patches that influenced avian habitat use during winter. Generalist birds such as the Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) and meadowlarks (Sturnella spp.) were relatively common in all patch types while more specialized species such as the Smith's Longspur (Calcarius pictus) and Le Conte's Sparrow (Ammodramus leconteii) reached greatest abundance and probability of occupancy in the patches with the least and greatest time post disturbance, respectively. This research provides novel information on the response of wintering birds to restored ecological processes in grasslands and can improve efforts to create effective conservation strategies. Our findings add to a growing body of literature supporting the use of fire and grazing to create a shifting grassland mosaic that increases vegetation structural and compositional heterogeneity and maximizes native biodiversity within rangeland ecosystems through the conservation of natural patterns and processes.	[Hovick, TJ; Elmore, RD; Fuhlendorf, SD] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA	Hovick, TJ (reprint author), Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA.	torre.hovick@gmail.com			2	79	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	2150-8925		ECOSPHERE	Ecosphere	2014	MAY	5	5				62	62	13		AI8KW	CCC:000337164100013		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Sitters, HChristie, FJDi Stefano, JSwan, MPenman, TCollins, PCYork, A	Sitters, Holly; Christie, Fiona J.; Di Stefano, Julian; Swan, Matthew; Penman, Trent; Collins, Peter C.; York, Alan		Avian responses to the diversity and configuration of fire age classes and vegetation types across a rainfall gradient	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Conservation, Disturbance, Fire management, Heterogeneity, Patch diversity, Spatial pattern	SOUTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, SPECIES RICHNESS, LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE, EUCALYPT FORESTS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, HABITAT, BIODIVERSITY, ECOSYSTEMS	In many regions, planned burns are implemented to reduce fuel loads and mitigate wildfire risk; increasingly, they are also used to achieve conservation outcomes. However, there is uncertainty regarding how best to apply fire to landscapes in order to enhance biodiversity. The assumption that variable fire regimes are conducive to biodiversity conservation is appealing given its basis in landscape ecological theory, which predicts that spatially complex landscapes sustain greater biodiversity. This supposition is often used as a basis for fire management but has rarely been tested in the context of fire. We sought to test predicted positive relationships between bird diversity and both landscape diversity and configuration in the fire-prone Otway Ranges, southeast Australia, where vegetation transitions from treeless heath to tall open eucalypt forest across a rainfall gradient. We used a whole-of-landscape sampling approach, and mapped fire age classes and vegetation types separately within thirty-six 300 ha landscape sampling units. Bird surveys were undertaken at sub-sampling locations during two successive years, and presence-absence data were used to generate landscape-level estimates of species richness and turnover. Generalized linear mixed models, model selection and model averaging were used to investigate how birds responded to landscape diversity and configuration across the rainfall gradient. Species richness was positively associated with age class diversity, age class configuration and vegetation type diversity. Species turnover was positively associated with age class diversity in areas of lower rainfall but exhibited a negative response in areas of higher rainfall. Neither response variable was associated with vegetation type configuration. This study is one of few landscape scale analyses to provide empirical support for the widely held assumption that spatially variable fire regimes can increase the diversity of faunal assemblages. Further, our results demonstrated consistency in responses of species richness to fire-mediated landscape complexity across a rainfall gradient. Managers can potentially increase bird species richness by increasing both the diversity of fire age classes, and the complexity of age class configuration, within relatively small (300 ha) areas. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Sitters, H; Christie, FJ; Di Stefano, J; Swan, M; Collins, PC; York, A] Univ Melbourne, Dept Forest & Ecosyst Sci, Fire Ecol & Biodivers Grp, Creswick, Vic 3363, Australia; [Penman, T] Univ Wollongong, Sch Biol Sci, Ctr Environm Risk Management Bushfires, Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia	Sitters, H (reprint author), Univ Melbourne, Dept Forest & Ecosyst Sci, Fire Ecol & Biodivers Grp, Creswick, Vic 3363, Australia.	hsitters@student.unimelb.edu.au; fjc@unimelb.edu.au; juliands@unimelb.edu.au; mswan@student.unimelb.edu.au; tpenman@uow.edu.au; petercollins129@gmail.com; alan.york@unimelb.edu.au	York, Alan/M-2443-2015; Penman, Trent/A-7242-2012; Di Stefano, Julian/	York, Alan/0000-0003-3161-4075; Penman, Trent/0000-0002-5203-9818; Di Stefano, Julian/0000-0001-7846-6642	2	58	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	APR	318					13	20	8		AE6EH	CCC:000334082900002					2019-04-10J	Robinson, NMLeonard, SWJBennett, AFClarke, MF	Robinson, Natasha M.; Leonard, Steven W. J.; Bennett, Andrew F.; Clarke, Michael F.		Refuges for birds in fire-prone landscapes: The influence of fire severity and fire history on the distribution of forest birds	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biological legacies, Residual habitat, Fire skips, Black Saturday fire, Foothill forest, Australia	SOUTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, CLIMATE-CHANGE, EUCALYPT FORESTS, NATIONAL-PARK, HABITAT, WILDFIRE, COMMUNITIES, PATCHES, IMPACT, CONSERVATION	Unburnt patches within a fire boundary may act as refuges for fauna, facilitating their survival and persistence within fire-prone landscapes. Unburnt patches can arise due to various processes, including topographic variation, fire behaviour, and fuel reduction from recent burning. However, the value of unburnt patches of differing characteristics to the post-fire persistence of faunal communities has rarely been examined. In this study, we examined the relative importance of fire history and severity in predicting the occurrence of birds in a burnt forest landscape. We conducted surveys in mixed eucalypt forest of south-east Australia, 2-3 years after a high intensity, landscape-scale wildfire (>200,000 ha). Sites (n = 91) were selected to encompass fire severity ranging from unburnt patches to stands of crown-burnt forest. Fire history prior to the wildfire was defined as short (<3 years) or long (>20 years) time-since-fire. Unburnt patches of long time-since-fire were important avian refuges, harbouring 20-40% more species, up to 56% more individuals and an assemblage that was distinct from that at all sites burnt by the wildfire, including low severity ground fire. No difference in species richness or composition was detected between sites in unburnt patches of short or long time-since-fire; but bird abundance was 20% lower in patches of short time-since-fire. Unburnt and ground-burnt patches of short time-since-fire provided habitat for more species and had distinct assemblages from that of severely burnt sites. For sites severely burnt in the wildfire, there was no difference in avifaunal richness, abundance or composition between those burnt twice in rapid succession and those not burnt for >20 years. Together, these results highlight: (1) the particular importance of unburnt vegetation remaining within fire-affected areas as faunal refuges, and (2) the potential for recent planned burns to contribute to refuge habitat if it avoids severe burning in a subsequent wildfire. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Robinson, NM; Leonard, SWJ; Clarke, MF] La Trobe Univ, Dept Zool, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia; [Bennett, AF] Deakin Univ, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia	Robinson, NM (reprint author), La Trobe Univ, Dept Zool, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia.	nm3robinson@students.latrobe.edu.au; s.leonard@latrobe.edu.au; andrew.bennett@deakin.edu.au; m.clarke@latrobe.edu.au		Robinson, Natasha/0000-0003-0421-8683	0	54	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	APR	318					110	121	12		AE6EH	CCC:000334082900012					2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DBBlanchard, WMcBurney, LBlair, DBanks, SCDriscoll, DASmith, ALGill, AM	Lindenmayer, David B.; Blanchard, Wade; McBurney, Lachlan; Blair, David; Banks, Sam C.; Driscoll, Don A.; Smith, Annabel L.; Gill, A. M.		Complex responses of birds to landscape- level fire extent, fire severity and environmental drivers	DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Community ecology, disturbance, landscape-level fire, mega-fire, site fidelity, succession	BUNTING EMBERIZA-HORTULANA, BURN SEVERITY, FOREST, AUSTRALIA, HABITAT, BIODIVERSITY, TIME, COLONIZATION, CONSERVATION, ASSEMBLAGES	AimTo quantify bird responses to a large unplanned fire, taking into consideration landscape-level fire severity and extent, pre-fire site detection frequency and environmental gradients.LocationSouth-eastern Australia.MethodsA major wildfire in 2009 coincided with a long-term study of birds and provided a rare opportunity to quantify bird responses to wildfire. Using hierarchical Bayesian analysis, we modelled bird species richness and the detection frequency of individual species in response to a suite of explanatory variables, including (1) landscape-level fire severity and extent (2) pre-fire detection frequency, (3) site-level vegetation density and (4) environmental variables (e.g. elevation and topography).ResultsLandscape-level fire severity had strong effects on bird species richness and the detection frequency of the majority of bird species. These effects varied markedly between species; most responded negatively to amount of severely burned forest in the landscape, one negatively to the amount of moderately burned forest and one responded negatively to the total area of burned forest. Only one species - the Flame Robin - responded positively to the amount of burned forest. Relationships with landscape-scale fire extent changed over time for one species - the Brown Thornbill - with initially depressed rates of detection recovering after just 2years. The majority of species were significantly more likely to be detected in burned areas if they have been recorded there prior to the fire.Main conclusionsBirds responded strongly to the severity and spatial extent of fire. They also exhibited strong site fidelity even after severe wildfire which causes profound changes in vegetation cover - a response likely influenced by environmental features such as elevation and topography.	[Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; Blanchard, W; McBurney, L; Blair, D; Banks, SC; Driscoll, DA; Smith, AL; Gill, AM] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; Banks, SC; Driscoll, DA; Smith, AL] Australian Natl Univ, ARC Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; Driscoll, DA; Smith, AL] Australian Natl Univ, Natl Environm Res Program, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB; McBurney, L; Blair, D] Australian Natl Univ, Long Term Ecol Res Network, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia	Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au	Smith, Annabel/M-6391-2014; Banks, Sam/K-4907-2012; Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017; Driscoll, Don/	Smith, Annabel/0000-0002-1201-8713; Banks, Sam/0000-0003-2415-0057; Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088; Driscoll, Don/0000-0002-1560-5235	2	55	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1366-9516		DIVERS DISTRIB	Divers. Distrib.	2014	APR	20	4				467	477	11		AC3UE	CCC:000332445900008					2019-04-10J	Bohn, JLDiemont, SAWGibbs, JPStehman, SVVega, JM	Bohn, Jessica L.; Diemont, Stewart A. W.; Gibbs, James P.; Stehman, Stephen V.; Mendoza Vega, Jorge		Implications of Mayan agroforestry for biodiversity conservation in the Calakmul Biosphere Reserve, Mexico	AGROFORESTRY SYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AGRICULTURE/AGRONOMY	Agriculture	Conservation biology, Biosphere reserve network, Mesoamerican biological corridor, Traditional ecological knowledge, Yucatec Maya, Tzotzil Maya	SOIL ORGANIC-MATTER, YUCATAN PENINSULA, ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE, FOREST, RESTORATION, MANAGEMENT, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITY, CHIAPAS	Agroforestry for production and ecosystem health is a centuries-old form of ecosystem management used in many cultures indigenous to Mesoamerica, yet implications of such practices for biodiversity conservation are not well understood. Agroforestry systems were studied using interviews of farmers and field surveys of tree and bird diversity in three communities surrounding the Calakmul Biosphere Reserve in Campeche, Mexico to examine how differences in forest management practices affect forest biodiversity. Tree diversity and bird species richness were higher in areas surrounding communities that generated a greater variety of forest products and that cultivated "restoration trees," species planted to aid in regeneration of mature forest. We conclude that traditional ecosystem management methods in areas surrounding natural reserves as practiced by inhabitants who depend on resources in the reserve for survival are compatible with maintaining and perhaps enhancing diversity of bird and tree communities at the site level.	[Bohn, JL; Diemont, SAW] SUNY Syracuse, Coll Environm Sci & Forestry, Dept Environm Resources Engn, Syracuse, NY 13210 USA; [Diemont, SAW] Colegio Frontera Sur, Dept Agroecol, Chiapas, Mexico; [Diemont, SAW; Gibbs, JP] SUNY Syracuse, Coll Environm Sci & Forestry, Dept Environm & Forest Biol, Syracuse, NY 13210 USA; [Stehman, SV] SUNY Syracuse, Coll Environm Sci & Forestry, Dept Forest & Nat Resources Management, Syracuse, NY 13210 USA; [Vega, JM] Colegio Frontera Sur, Dept Agroecol, Campeche 24500, Mexico	Diemont, SAW (reprint author), SUNY Syracuse, Coll Environm Sci & Forestry, Dept Environm Resources Engn, 402 Baker,1 Forestry Dr, Syracuse, NY 13210 USA.	sdiemont@esf.edu			2	62	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0167-4366		AGROFOREST SYST	Agrofor. Syst.	2014	APR	88	2				269	285	17		AF0MV	CCC:000334409600007					2019-04-10J	Barton, PSIkin, KSmith, ALMacGregor, CLindenmayer, DB	Barton, Philip S.; Ikin, Karen; Smith, Annabel L.; MacGregor, Christopher; Lindenmayer, David B.		Vegetation structure moderates the effect of fire on bird assemblages in a heterogeneous landscape	LANDSCAPE ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Conceptual model, Community composition, Disturbance, Habitat complexity, Patch-mosaic, Succession	HABITAT COMPLEXITY, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, POSTFIRE SUCCESSION, FOREST ECOSYSTEMS, BETA DIVERSITY, DISTURBANCE, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, AUSTRALIA, COMMUNITY	Ecological theory predicting the impact of fire on ecological communities is typically focused on post-disturbance recovery processes or on disturbance-diversity dynamics. Yet the established relationship between vegetation structure and animal diversity could provide a foundation to predict the short-term effects of fire on biodiversity, but has rarely been explored. We tested the hypothesis that fire effects on bird assemblages would be moderated by increasing vegetation structure. We examined bird assemblages in burnt and unburnt sites at 1 and 6 years after a wildfire, and compared richness and composition responses among and within three structurally distinct vegetation types in the same landscape: heath, woodland and forest. We found that short-term changes in bird assemblage composition were largest in simple heath vegetation and smallest in complex forest vegetation. The short-term change in species richness was larger in forest than in heath. We also found that among-site assemblage variability was greater shortly after fire in heath and woodland vegetation compared with forest vegetation. Our results indicate that complexity in vegetation structure, particularly overstorey cover, can act as an important moderator of fire effects on bird assemblages. Mechanisms for this response include a greater loss of structure in vegetation characterised by a single low stratum, and a proportionally greater change in bird species composition despite a smaller absolute change in species richness. We discuss our results in the context of a new conceptual model that predicts contrasting richness and composition responses of bird assemblages following disturbance along a gradient of increasing vegetation structure. This model brings a different perspective to current theories of disturbance, and has implications for understanding and managing the effects of fire on biodiversity in heterogeneous landscapes.	[Barton, PS; Ikin, K; Smith, AL; MacGregor, C; Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Barton, PS; Ikin, K; Smith, AL; Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Australian Res Council, Ctr Excellence Environm Decis, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Barton, PS; Ikin, K; Smith, AL; Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Natl Environm Res Program Environm Decis Hub, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Long Term Ecol Res Network, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia	Barton, PS (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	philip.barton@anu.edu.au	Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017; Smith, Annabel/M-6391-2014; Ikin, Karen/G-2845-2012; Barton, Philip/A-6400-2010	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088; Smith, Annabel/0000-0002-1201-8713; Barton, Philip/0000-0002-8377-2211	2	73	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0921-2973		LANDSCAPE ECOL	Landsc. Ecol.	2014	APR	29	4				703	714	12		AD8RR	CCC:000333533800012					2019-04-10J	Kilgo, JCVukovich, MA	Kilgo, John C.; Vukovich, Mark A.		Can snag creation benefit a primary cavity nester: Response to an experimental pulse in snag abundance	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Created snag, Home range overlap, Home range size, Melanerpes erythrocephalus, Primary cavity nester, Red-headed woodpecker	NESTING BIRDS, TERRITORY SIZE, CONIFER FORESTS, WESTERN OREGON, WOODPECKERS, BEHAVIOR, DENSITY, MANAGEMENT, DYNAMICS, COMMUNITIES	Thresholds in response by cavity-nesting bird populations to variations in the snag resource are poorly understood. In addition, limited information exists on the value of artificially created snags for cavitynesting birds. Therefore, uncertainty exists in whether artificially created snags can yield a positive population response among snag-dependent birds. We used an experimental approach to assess the abundance and territory dynamics of a primary cavity nester, the red-headed woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus), in response to three snag density treatments over an 8-year period following treatment installation in 2001. Treatments included snag removal, an unmanipulated control, and a snag pulse (snags experimentally created at 14 times control density). During the first two years post-treatment, abundance of red-headed woodpeckers did not differ among treatments. In 2004, woodpecker abundance in snag pulse plots surpassed that of other treatments and continued to increase until it peaked in 2007 (at nearly 6 times than on control plots), after which it declined but remained greater than on control plots through 2009. Increased woodpecker abundance in high snag density areas was facilitated primarily by a decrease in home range size. Because the red-headed woodpecker is negatively affected by very low snag densities, yet is capable of exploiting pulses in the snag resource by dramatically increasing its abundance, we conclude that snag density regulates populations of this primary cavity nesting species and that snag creation can be an important tool in its conservation. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	[Kilgo, JC; Vukovich, MA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, New Ellenton, SC 29809 USA	Kilgo, JC (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Southern Res Stn, POB 700, New Ellenton, SC 29809 USA.	jkilgo@fs.fed.us			1	37	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2014	MAR	171					21	28	8		AG5VI	CCC:000335486400003					2019-04-10J	Vatka, EKangas, KOrell, MLampila, SNikula, ANivala, V	Vatka, E.; Kangas, K.; Orell, M.; Lampila, S.; Nikula, A.; Nivala, V.		Nest site selection of a primary hole-nesting passerine reveals means to developing sustainable forestry	JOURNAL OF AVIAN BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		TIT PARUS-MONTANUS, HABITAT SELECTION, LANDSCAPE OCCUPANCY, NORTHERN EUROPE, WINTER SURVIVAL, BIRDS, FRAGMENTATION, SUCCESS, POPULATION, PREDATION	Anthropogenic habitat loss and fragmentation affect populations worldwide. For example, many bird populations of boreal forests have declined due to intensive forestry. To target conservation actions for such species, determining the key factors that affect their habitat selection is essential. Remote sensing methods provide highly potential means to measure habitat variables over large areas. We aim at identifying the key-features of habitats by utilizing remote sensing data. As a case example, we study the nest site selection of a primary hole-nesting passerine, the willow tit Poecile montanus, in a managed forest landscape. Using presence-absence data, we determine the most important habitat characteristics of the nest sites for three spatial scales by generalized linear mixed effect models. Our results highlight the importance of the availability of nesting sites - standing decaying deciduous trees - in the nest site selection of P. montanus. It seems to prefer moist habitats with high densities of deciduous trees and to avoid open areas, but does not require mature or intact habitats. Most of the nest site selection seems to occur within small scales. In this case, remote sensing data alone was insufficient for producing reliable models, but adding information of an ecologically important feature from direct field surveys greatly improved model performances. For the conservation and maintenance of dead wood dependent species, changes in forestry practices are necessary to keep the key characteristics of the habitat. Most importantly, continuous availability of standing decaying wood should be secured.	[Vatka, E; Kangas, K; Orell, M; Lampila, S] Univ Oulu, Dept Biol, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland; [Kangas, K] Univ Oulu, Oulu Unit, Finnish Forest Res Inst, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland; [Nikula, A; Nivala, V] Rovaniemi Unit, Finnish Forest Res Inst, FI-96300 Rovaniemi, Finland	Vatka, E (reprint author), Univ Oulu, Dept Biol, POB 3000, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland.	emma.vatka@oulu.fi			3	39	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0908-8857		J AVIAN BIOL	J. Avian Biol.	2014	MAR	45	2				187	196	10		AC3DA	CCC:000332394000009					2019-04-10J	Lafage, DPetillon, J	Lafage, Denis; Petillon, Julien		Impact of cutting date on carabids and spiders in a wet meadow	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Grassland, Carabid beetle, Spider, Management, Mowing period	FUNCTIONAL DIVERSITY, ARTHROPOD COMMUNITIES, MANAGEMENT-PRACTICES, SPECIES RICHNESS, MULTIPLE TRAITS, WESTERN FRANCE, ACTIVE SPIDERS, GROUND BEETLE, SALT MARSHES, GRASSLAND	The impact of different cutting dates on two dominant groups of ground-dwelling arthropods (carabids and spiders) was assessed. Short-term impacts were assessed by comparing them before and after cutting. Arthropods were collected by pitfall traps located in three plots with different cutting dates between June and August and one uncut control plot. Trapping was performed during a 4-month period in the spring and summer 2011. In total, 26,392 spiders and 12,278 carabids, representing 56 and 82 species respectively, were collected. Overall, the effects of cutting were negative and mostly visible in the long term for carabids, with reduced abundances and species richness in cut plots, and in the short-term for spiders; several parameters (proportion of predators and polyphagous species, and body length) decreased after cutting while remaining stable in the control. Long-term cutting effects revealed almost no differences between plots cut at different dates whereas the short-term effects decreased slightly over time, with respect to the overall phenology of both groups. In conclusion, this study underlines the fact that cutting has drastic effects on ground-dwelling arthropods, and even late dates, which are supposedly positive for other animals like breeding birds, are deleterious for highly diverse and species-rich grassland groups. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Lafage, D; Petillon, J] Univ Rennes 1, URU 420, UMR CNRS UPMC 7204, Museum Natl Hist Nat, F-35042 Rennes, France; [Lafage, D] Univ Angers, LUNAM, GECCO, F-49045 Angers, France	Lafage, D (reprint author), Univ Rennes 1, URU 420, UMR CNRS UPMC 7204, Museum Natl Hist Nat, 263 Ave Gen Leclerc,CS 74205, F-35042 Rennes, France.	lafage.denis@gmail.com		Petillon, Julien/0000-0002-7611-5133; Lafage, Denis/0000-0002-6205-611X	1	34	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0167-8809		AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON	Agric. Ecosyst. Environ.	2014	MAR	185					1	8	8		AF8PL	CCC:000334978000001					2019-04-10J	Last, LLuscher, GWidmer, FBoller, BKolliker, R	Last, Luisa; Luescher, Gisela; Widmer, Franco; Boller, Beat; Koelliker, Roland		Indicators for genetic and phenotypic diversity of Dactylis glomerata in Swiss permanent grassland	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Genetic diversity, Phenotypic diversity, Grassland management, Species diversity, Environmental parameters, Dactylis glomerate	FESTUCA-PRATENSIS HUDS., PLANT-SPECIES DIVERSITY, LAND-USE, LOLIUM-PERENNE, ECOTYPE POPULATIONS, ALPINE GRASS, SSR MARKERS, VULGARIS L, COMMUNITIES, BIODIVERSITY	Genetic diversity is the fundamental level of biological diversity. In the discussion of biological diversity in agricultural ecosystems, this level is of major importance, but often neglected. Tools for the direct measurement of genetic diversity, especially in highly diverse systems such as permanent grassland, are demanding and the relationship between genetic diversity and management practices or environmental factors is poorly understood. Genetic diversity of the common grassland species Dactylis glomerata was assessed using genetic diversity indices based on 29 SSR markers. Phenotypic diversity within and among selected populations was evaluated in a replicated field experiment based on ten phenotypic plant characters of agronomic relevance. Twenty populations of D. glomerata from permanent grassland from the Swiss Alps were included in the analysis. We investigated correlations between genetic diversity (genotypic/phenotypic) and farming system (conventional/organic), management intensity (intensive/extensive), three plant species diversity indices, five ecological and five habitat parameters at collection sites. Genetic and phenotypic variability within and among populations of D. glomerata was large. The intensive management of permanent grassland reduced genotype diversity and genetic variation of the plant character 'flowering time', while conventional farming systems increased the average expected heterozygosity within populations of D. glomerata. Populations from extensively managed sampling sites accommodated significantly smaller D. glomerata individuals. SSR markers and phenotypic characters proved to be valuable tools for the assessment of genetic and phenotypic diversity considering different perspectives. Management parameters were the main factors influencing genotypic diversity and phenotypic characteristics in natural populations of D. glomerata in permanent grassland. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Last, L; Luscher, G; Widmer, F; Boller, B; Kolliker, R] Agroscope Reckenholz Tanikon Res Stn ART, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland	Kolliker, R (reprint author), Agroscope Reckenholz Tanikon Res Stn ART, Reckenholzstr 191, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland.	luisa.last@agroscope.admin.ch; gisela.luescher@agroscope.admin.ch; franco.widmer@agroscope.admin.ch; beat.boller@agroscope.admin.ch; roland.koelliker@agroscope.admin.ch	Kolliker, Roland/D-9635-2018; Luscher, Gisela/	Kolliker, Roland/0000-0003-1959-0402; Luscher, Gisela/0000-0001-8515-7880	3	63	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2014	MAR	38					181	191	11		300XP	CCC:000330497600020					2019-04-10J	MacKay, AAllard, MVillard, MA	MacKay, Allison; Allard, Maxime; Villard, Marc-Andre		Capacity of older plantations to host bird assemblages of naturally-regenerated conifer forests: A test at stand and landscape levels	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bird communities, Forest management, Nesting guilds, Cavity-nesting birds, Bayesian hierarchical models, Silviculture	WOODPECKERS PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, HABITAT REQUIREMENTS, CONSERVATION VALUE, BOREAL FOREST, DEAD WOOD, BIODIVERSITY, COMMUNITIES, THRESHOLDS, INDICATORS	Conifer plantations are thought to provide lower-quality habitat for many old forest specialists because of their simplified stand structure and relative paucity of habitat elements such as dead wood. However, at the landscape scale, plantations may have a positive influence on biodiversity, e.g. through landscape supplementation. Here, we test the quality of older spruce plantations as breeding habitat for forest birds at local and landscape levels. We compared bird species assemblages of 40-50 year-old native spruce plantations with those of mature, naturally-regenerated conifer forests using a Bayesian hierarchical model, which accounts for imperfect detection of species. Median species richness was higher in naturally-regenerated conifer stands than in spruce plantations (29.2 vs. 24.4; 95% probability interval = 3.9-5.7), which probably reflects the absence of primary cavity nesters from many stations within plantations. In contrast, more species of canopy nesters were detected in plantations. The proportion of naturally-regenerated conifer forest in the landscape was a predictor of species occurrence for five ground nesters, four primary cavity nesters, and two weak excavators. Older spruce plantations did not provide suitable habitat for some species, mainly cavity nesters. Snag densities in plantations were lower than the estimated threshold requirements for several cavity-nesting birds. Hence, mature, naturally-regenerated forest patches are essential components of intensively-managed forest landscapes to maintain rich forest bird assemblages. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[MacKay, A; Villard, MA] Univ Moncton, Dept Biol, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9, Canada; [Allard, M] Univ Quebec, Dept Sci Biol, Montreal, PQ H3C 3P8, Canada	Villard, MA (reprint author), Univ Moncton, Dept Biol, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9, Canada.	mackay.allison16@gmail.com; allardmax@icloud.com; marc-andre.villard@umoncton.ca			0	40	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2014	FEB	170					110	119	10		AE2AA	CCC:000333774500014					2019-04-10J	Smetzer, JRKing, DISchlossberg, S	Smetzer, Jennifer R.; King, David I.; Schlossberg, Scott		Management Regime Influences Shrubland Birds and Habitat Conditions in the Northern Appalachians, USA	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	clearcut, early-successional habitat, management history, N-mixture models, silviculture, wildlife opening	NORTHEASTERN UNITED-STATES, EARLY-SUCCESSIONAL HABITATS, REPLICATED COUNTS, SONGBIRD RESPONSE, HARDWOOD FOREST, MIXTURE-MODELS, NEW-HAMPSHIRE, OF-WAYS, COMMUNITIES, MASSACHUSETTS	Population declines of birds that breed in early-successional shrubland habitat are of great concern to conservationists throughout the northeastern United States. To help increase the efficiency and effectiveness of efforts to conserve these species and their habitats, we studied birds in temporary forest openings created through even-aged timber harvest, and permanent wildlife openings maintained through mechanical treatment and prescribed burning in the Northern Appalachians, USA in 2010 and 2011. We assessed the effects of treatment method, time since last treatment, and retained tree cover on shrubland bird abundance and habitat conditions. Burned and mechanically treated wildlife openings differed only in grass and fern cover. Both types of wildlife openings had more grasses and forbs, and less bare ground than silvicultural openings. Six out of 8 focal bird species were less abundant in silvicultural openings than in wildlife openings. In contrast, abundance of only 1 species differed between burned and mechanically treated wildlife openings. Silvicultural openings supported the same species as wildlife openings, indicating that this management option could be used in place of more costly wildlife opening management. However, because birds were more abundant in wildlife openings, maintaining the current population size of shrubland birds under a management strategy based entirely on silviculture would require a 50-300% increase in the area of silvicultural openings, depending on the species. Individual species peaked in abundance at different times post treatment, indicating that managers must maintain a range of early-successional conditions across the landscape to provide habitat for the entire suite of shrubland birds. Six species exhibited a negative relationship with the basal area of retained conifer cover, and 7 species with deciduous tree cover, indicating that the retention of overstory trees in openings reduced their utility to early-successional birds. (c) 2014 The Wildlife Society, 2014.	[Smetzer, JR; Schlossberg, S] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Environm Conservat, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [King, DI] Univ Massachusetts, US Forest Serv Northern Res Stn, Amherst, MA 01003 USA	Smetzer, JR (reprint author), Univ Massachusetts, Dept Environm Conservat, 204 Holdsworth Hall, Amherst, MA 01003 USA.	jsmetzer@eco.umass.edu			0	21	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2014	FEB	78	2				314	324	11		AB5XS	CCC:000331862600015					2019-04-10J	Rota, CTRumble, MAMillspaugh, JJLehman, CPKesler, DC	Rota, Christopher T.; Rumble, Mark A.; Millspaugh, Joshua J.; Lehman, Chadwick P.; Kesler, Dylan C.		Space-use and habitat associations of Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) occupying recently disturbed forests in the Black Hills, South Dakota	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bark beetles, Mountain pine beetle, Prescribed fire, Resource selection, Wildfire	MOUNTAIN PINE-BEETLE, HOME-RANGE SIZE, PONDEROSA PINE, RESOURCE SELECTION, BOREAL FOREST, BIRD COMMUNITIES, CONIFER FORESTS, BURNED FORESTS, FIRE SEVERITY, SIERRA-NEVADA	Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) are a disturbance-dependent species that occupy recently burned forest and mountain pine beetle (MPB) infestations. Forest management practices that reduce the amount of disturbed forest may lead to habitat loss for Black-backed Woodpeckers, which have recently been petitioned for listing under the Endangered Species Act. We studied home range size and resource selection of Black-backed Woodpeckers occupying habitat created by summer wildfire, fall prescribed fire, and MPB infestations in the Black Hills, South Dakota. We studied home range size and resource selection by attaching radio-transmitters to adult Black-backed Woodpeckers. We estimated home range size using fixed kernel density techniques (n = 28 in habitat created by summer wildfire, n = 19 in habitat created by fall prescribed fire, and n = 27 in MPB infestations). We evaluated resource selection with a random-effects discrete choice model in a Bayesian framework (n = 5 in habitat created by summer wildfire, n = 16 in habitat created by fall prescribed fire, and n = 8 in habitat created by MPB infestations). Home range size was smallest in 1-2 year post summer wildfire habitat (mean home range size = 79 ha) and 2-year post fall prescribed fire habitat (mean home range size = 143 ha). Home range size was intermediate in MPB infestations (mean home range size = 307 ha) and was greatest in 3-4 year post fire habitat (mean summer wildfire home range size = 430 hectares, mean fall prescribed fire home range size = 460 ha). The relative probability that a Black-backed Woodpecker used a tree increased with increasing diameter at breast height (DBH) and basal area and was greatest on disturbance-killed trees. These results suggest 1-2 year post summer wildfire habitat may have the greatest relative value to Black-backed Woodpeckers and that MPB infestations may be more important as post-fire habitats age. We recommend retaining patches of 1-2 year post summer wildfire habitat that are at least 200 ha by exempting portions of recently burned forest from salvage logging. This recommendation can be accomplished by exempting salvage logging in summer wildfires <200 ha and retaining at least 50% of summer wildfires >400 ha. Ideally, recently burned forest patches should be composed of >= 27 m(2) basal area/ha of trees that burned at moderate or high severity, with at least 40% of the basal area composed of trees >= 27 cm DBH. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Rota, CT; Millspaugh, JJ; Kesler, DC] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Rumble, MA] US Forest Serv, Forest & Grassland Res Lab, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Rapid City, SD 57702 USA; [Lehman, CP] Custer State Pk, Custer, SD 57730 USA	Rota, CT (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, 302 Anheuser Busch Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	rotact@missouri.edu		Rota, Christopher/0000-0001-9272-4687	1	36	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2014	FEB	313					161	168	8		AB3BF	CCC:000331665600019					2019-04-10J	Chaiyarat, REiam-Ampai, K	Chaiyarat, Rattanawat; Eiam-Ampai, Kairat		Effects of Grazing on Nesting of the Oriental Pratincole (Glareola maldivarum) in Bueng Boraphet Wetland, Thailand	ZOOLOGICAL SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Life Sciences (LS)	ANIMAL SCIENCES, ANIMAL & PLANT SCIENCE	Zoology; Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	wetland bird, livestock, bird conservation, habitat management, nest success	INSECTIVOROUS PASSERINE, BIRD POPULATIONS, CONSERVATION, GRASSLANDS, MANAGEMENT, HABITATS, SUCCESS, PRODUCTIVITY, DIVERSITY, PREDATION	Livestock grazing may negatively impact bird nesting in wetland habitats. This study evaluated the effect of grazing on the nests of the Oriental pratincole (Glareola maldivarum) along the grassland of a wetland at six study sites with different densities of grazing cattle and buffalo. Species richness, density, cover, and height of vegetation in the study areas were different (P < 0.05). The density of cattle and buffalo at the various sites affected vegetation composition and amount, which in turn influenced bird nest density. The estimated trampling rates, number of fledglings, and number of trampled eggs were different among study sites (P < 0.05). The density of cattle and buffalo has an influence on nest failure rates. The factors that influenced the mortality rates of the Oriental pratincole were trampling and unhatched eggs. Only 48.5% of the nests were successful at sites where cattle and buffalo continuously grazed in the grasslands at high densities. Thus, increases in the density of cattle and buffalo will reduce the number of nests of the Oriental pratincole, which may result in a reduction of the overall population in the future.	[Chaiyarat, R] Mahidol Univ, Wildlife & Plant Res Ctr, Fac Environm & Resource Studies, Phuttamonthon 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Eiam-Ampai, K] Wildlife & Plant Dept, Bueng Boraphet Wildlife Res Stn, Wildlife Res Div, Bangkok 10900, Thailand	Chaiyarat, R (reprint author), Mahidol Univ, Wildlife & Plant Res Ctr, Fac Environm & Resource Studies, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Phuttamonthon 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.	rattanawat.cha@mahidol.ac.th			0	9	ZOOLOGICAL SOC JAPAN	TOKYO	TOSHIN-BUILDING, HONGO 2-27-2, BUNKYO-KU, TOKYO, 113-0033, JAPAN		0289-0003		ZOOL SCI	Zool. Sci.	2014	FEB	31	2				77	82	6		303ZZ	CCC:000330716300004	24521316				2019-04-10J	Sanchez-Oliver, JSBenayas, JMRCarrascal, LM	Sanchez-Oliver, J. S.; Rey Benayas, J. M.; Carrascal, L. M.		Differential effects of local habitat and landscape characteristics on bird communities in Mediterranean afforestations motivated by the EU Common Agrarian Policy	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Bird assemblages, Forest generalist species, Land use, Seasonal variation, Species density, Tree plantation	LAND-USE, PINE PLANTATIONS, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPE, SPECIES RICHNESS, DIVERSITY, RESTORATION, PREDATION, SPAIN, BIODIVERSITY, ASSEMBLAGES	We investigated the effects of local habitat structure and surrounding landscape characteristics (proportion of land use types and connectedness) on species density and composition of bird communities inhabiting the interior of young tree plantations on former cropland in central Spain, which were motivated by the Common Agrarian Policy. Variation of species density (number of species/0.78 ha) among tree plantations showed different environmental associations across seasons: local habitat was more important than landscape characteristics during winter, whereas they were similarly important during spring. Species density increased with the development of the tree layer in winter and with the presence of urban areas around tree plantations and cover of the herbaceous layer within them in the breeding season. We identified 15 species that exhibit high relative abundance in woodland habitats within the Mesomediterranean region of Central Spain that were absent in both seasons in the studied tree plantations, which were an attractive habitat for urban exploiter species but an unfavorable habitat for the regional forest species pool except for forest generalist species. Composition of bird assemblages was more related to local habitat structure than to landscape characteristics around tree plantations and was rather similar in winter and spring seasons. The very different effects of local habitat and landscape characteristics on bird communities make difficult suggesting management practices with positive effects for all avifauna species during the entire year. We conclude that the small size and low maturity of the studied tree plantations do not contribute to enhancing the bird diversity value of current CAP aids to afforest former cropland with pines in the Mediterranean region.	[Sanchez-Oliver, JS; Benayas, JMR] Univ Alcala de Henares, Dpto Ciencias Vida, Alcala De Henares 28871, Spain; [Carrascal, LM] CSIC, Museo Nacl Ciencias Nat, Dpto Biogeog & Cambio Global, E-28006 Madrid, Spain	Benayas, JMR (reprint author), Univ Alcala de Henares, Dpto Ciencias Vida, Edificio Ciencias, Alcala De Henares 28871, Spain.	juansalvador.sanchez@uah.es; josem.rey@uah.es; mcnc152@mncn.csic.es	Carrascal, Luis M./Q-2190-2016; Carrascal, Luis M./B-8381-2008; Sanchez-Oliver, Juan S./E-5759-2012; Rey Benayas, Jose/C-3218-2011	Carrascal, Luis M./0000-0003-1288-5531; Carrascal, Luis M./0000-0003-1288-5531; Sanchez-Oliver, Juan S./0000-0002-0976-7457; Rey Benayas, Jose/0000-0002-2099-8512	4	32	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	1612-4642		EUR J WILDLIFE RES	Eur. J. Wildl. Res.	2014	FEB	60	1				135	143	9		302GE	CCC:000330589700014					2019-04-10J	Grarock, KTidemann, CRWood, JTLindenmayer, DB	Grarock, Kate; Tidemann, Christopher R.; Wood, Jeffrey T.; Lindenmayer, David B.		Are invasive species drivers of native species decline or passengers of habitat modification? A case study of the impact of the common myna (Acridotheres tristis) on Australian bird species	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	driver-passenger model, Indian myna, introduced species, pest management, Sturnus tristis	MINERS MANORINA-MELANOPHRYS, EASTERN AUSTRALIA, NEST BOXES, ABUNDANCE, DIVERSITY, ASSEMBLAGES, LANDSCAPE, WOODLAND, FOREST, BIODIVERSITY	Habitat modification and invasive species are significant drivers of biodiversity decline. However, distinguishing between the impacts of these two drivers on native species can be difficult. For example, habitat modification may reduce native species abundance, while an invasive species may take advantage of the new environment. This scenario has been described as the driver-passenger model, with passengers' taking advantage of habitat modification and drivers' causing native species decline. Therefore, research must incorporate both habitat modification and invasive species impact to successfully investigate native species decline. In this paper, we used the common myna (Acridotheres tristis) as a case study to investigate the driver-passenger model. We investigated changes in bird abundance, over 2 years, in relation to different habitat types and common myna abundance. We hypothesized that the common myna is both a passenger of habitat change and a driver of some bird species decline. Our results indicated that the abundance of many native species is greater in high tree density nature reserves, while the common myna was uncommon in these areas. Common myna abundance was almost three times higher in urban areas than nature reserves and declined rapidly as tree density in nature reserves increased. Our findings indicated that the common myna is primarily a passenger of habitat change. However, we also observed negative associations between common myna abundance and some bird species. We stress the importance of simultaneously investigating both invasive species impact and habitat modification. We suggest habitat restoration could be a useful tool for both native species recovery and invasive species control. Understanding the drivers of native species decline will help inform impact mitigation and direct further research.	[Grarock, K; Tidemann, CR; Wood, JT; Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Natl Univ, Australia Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Grarock, K] Univ Canberra, Invas Anim Cooperat Res Ctr, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Res Council Ctr Excellence Environm De, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB] Natl Environm Res Program, Canberra, ACT, Australia	Grarock, K (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Australia Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	kate.grarock@anu.edu.au	Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088	3	116	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1442-9985		AUSTRAL ECOL	Austral Ecol.	2014	FEB	39	1				106	114	9		297NX	CCC:000330263300010					2019-04-10J	Albanesi, SDardanelli, SBellis, LM	Albanesi, Sebastian; Dardanelli, Sebastian; Bellis, Laura M.		Effects of fire disturbance on bird communities and species of mountain Serrano forest in central Argentina	JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird diversity, Central Argentina, Fire disturbance, Serrano forest	BREEDING BIRDS, AMAZONIAN FORESTS, AVIAN ASSEMBLAGES, SEMIARID FOREST, SIERRA-NEVADA, MONTE DESERT, ABUNDANCE, RESPONSES, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY	In central Argentina, Serrano forest has a long history of fire disturbance; however, the impact of fire on avifauna remains unknown. We compared the avian-habitat relationships in forest patches with low, moderate, and high fire regimes using a community-level (species richness, abundance, ordination and guilds) and species-level (indicator species analysis) approach. In patches under each fire condition, we recorded bird community composition, richness and abundance, and different vegetation structure variables. The site under high-severity fire regime was structurally poor and had been converted from original forest to dense grassland. There, diversity of bird community was low, retaining approximately 30 % of the species present in the least impacted site. Avian assemblage was dominated by generalist and open area birds. Guilds were underrepresented, showing an important reduction of foliage granivorous, nectarivorous, omnivores, and foliage and bark insectivorous, and absence of fly-catchers. Moreover, low abundance of forest understory, midstory, and canopy species and of birds belonging to open and closed nesting guilds was detected. By contrast, under low and moderate-severity fire regimes highest bird diversity as well as highest representativeness of most guilds was observed. Forest bird species were strongly associated with low fire disturbance, whereas moderate fire disturbance was characterized by the presence of forest and generalist species. Given the critical conservation status of Serrano forest in Crdoba, Argentina, habitat restoration and protection of forest relicts could be suitable measures to promote avifauna preservation.	[Albanesi, S; Bellis, LM] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Exactas Fis & Nat, Catedra Ecol, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina; [Dardanelli, S] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Exactas Fis & Nat, Ctr Zool Aplicada, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina; [Bellis, LM] Univ Nacl Cordoba, CONICET, IDEA, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina	Bellis, LM (reprint author), Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Exactas Fis & Nat, Catedra Ecol, Velez Sarsfield 299, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina.	lbellis7@gmail.com		Dardanelli, Sebastian/0000-0003-4341-3879	0	29	SPRINGER JAPAN KK	TOKYO	CHIYODA FIRST BLDG EAST, 3-8-1 NISHI-KANDA, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 101-0065, JAPAN	http://www.springer.com	1341-6979		J FOREST RES-JPN	J. For. Res.	2014	FEB	19	1				105	114	10		285OY	CCC:000329404600012					2019-04-10J	Calladine, JCritchley, CNRBaker, DTowers, JThiel, A	Calladine, John; Critchley, C. Nigel R.; Baker, David; Towers, James; Thiel, Andre		Conservation management of moorland: a case study of the effectiveness of a combined suite of management prescriptions which aim to enhance breeding bird populations	BIRD STUDY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		PLOVER PLUVIALIS-APRICARIA, AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, HARRIERS CIRCUS-CYANEUS, RED GROUSE, HEN-HARRIERS, LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE, PREDATOR CONTROL, BRITISH UPLANDS, LAND-USE, ABUNDANCE	Capsule A specific suite of moorland management prescriptions had no clear positive impact on breeding birds over ten years.Aims To test the expectation that a combination of grazing, and burning/cutting manipulations, the blocking of drains (affecting habitat quality and foraging resources) and the control of some predators (affecting survival and breeding success) will lead to an increase in numbers of breeding birds on 9.5km(2) of moorland in Scotland.Methods General Additive Modelling was used to compare bird population trends at the managed site against a control' of moorland-specific background trends (spatially and temporally smoothed) derived from an extensive UK-wide bird monitoring programme. Changes in vegetation, the effectiveness of predation control and influences of disturbance were also examined to attempt to identify potential mechanisms for population size changes.Results Breeding populations for most species showed either a more negative trend at the managed site (Red Grouse, Skylark and Meadow Pipit) or no significant difference was detected (European Golden Plover, Eurasian Curlew, Common Snipe and Winter Wren) when compared to moorland-specific background trends. Stonechats and Carrion Crows increased, despite the latter being actively removed as part of predation control measures. No general change in the vegetation was detected and no reasonable habitat-based cause for the observed declines in some species was apparent. There was also no convincing evidence for a negative effect on moorland birds of disturbance from a nearby mine. As crow control failed to stem their increase and with supportive evidence for a decline in the breeding success of Red Grouse, it is suggested that the control of predation was ineffective and may have contributed to some species declines.Conclusion There has been wide advocacy of, and considerable resources (e.g. through agri-environment schemes) devoted to, moorland habitat management for birds and yet declines continue. However, there are practical difficulties of establishing management that is effective in increasing moorland bird abundance. It appears likely that in areas where those birds are vulnerable to predation and its control is not effective, expectations of increasing bird populations in response to habitat management alone may be unrealistic.	[Calladine, J] Univ Stirling, Sch Biol Sci, British Trust Ornithol Scotland, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland; [Critchley, CNR] Newcastle Univ, ADAS UK Ltd, NEFG Off, Nafferton Farm, Stocksfield NE43 7XD, Northd, England; [Baker, D] British Trust Ornithol, Thetford IP24 3PA, Norfolk, England; [Towers, J] ADAS UK Ltd, Preston PR2 9WT, Lancs, England; [Thiel, A] Scottish Resources Grp, Near Alloa FK10 3PZ, Clack, Scotland	Calladine, J (reprint author), Univ Stirling, Sch Biol Sci, British Trust Ornithol Scotland, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland.	john.calladine@bto.org	Critchley, Christopher/A-3825-2015		6	69	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandf.co.uk	0006-3657		BIRD STUDY	Bird Stud.	2014	JAN	61	1				56	72	17		302PO	CCC:000330617600007		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Perronne, RGaba, SCadet, ELe Corre, V	Perronne, Remi; Gaba, Sabrina; Cadet, Emilie; Le Corre, Valerie		The interspecific and intraspecific variation of functional traits in weeds: diversified ecological strategies within arable fields	ACTA BOTANICA GALLICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	functional diversity, specific leaf area, canopy height, above-ground biomass, crop edge, field margin, field core, weed ecological strategies	AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, MANAGEMENT-PRACTICES, CROP FIELDS, LAND-USE, FLORA, COMMUNITIES, CONSERVATION, COMPETITION, LANDSCAPE	Arable weeds are a key component of the biodiversity of agroecosystems, but have faced a marked decline due to agricultural intensification. Recently, the crop edge has been considered as a potential refugia for many species. Indeed, weed species richness and abundance are higher in the crop edge than in the field margin and the field core. In this study we question whether weed functional diversity also varies among field elements and whether it is higher in the crop edge. We studied the interspecific and intraspecific variation of three functional traits (specific leaf area, canopy height and above-ground biomass) related to the response of weeds to competition and to agricultural practices, for seven weed species sampled in the crop edge, the field margin and the field core area in four winter-wheat fields. We show that trait values varied significantly with the species, the field element and their interaction. Within the field, all species had high specific leaf area, low canopy height and biomass, suggesting a shade-tolerance syndrome that could be a strategy in response to both competition with the crop and the disturbances induced by agricultural practices. In the crop edge, where the functional variation was the highest, two distinct functional strategies were observed, suggesting a resource partitioning under the predominance of weed-weed competition. In conclusion, the crop edge plays a key role in sustaining weed diversity, mostly because of its intermediate environmental properties that allow the coexistence of weeds with different ecological strategies.	[Perronne, R; Gaba, S; Cadet, E; Le Corre, V] INRA, Agroecol UMR1347, F-21000 Dijon, France	Le Corre, V (reprint author), INRA, Agroecol UMR1347, BP 86510, F-21000 Dijon, France.	valerie.lecorre@dijon.inra.fr	Gaba, Sabrina/H-5240-2018; Gaba, Sabrina/N-8428-2013; Le Corre, Valerie/	Gaba, Sabrina/0000-0002-7145-6713; Gaba, Sabrina/0000-0002-7145-6713; Le Corre, Valerie/0000-0001-6515-7795	3	36	SOC BOTANIQUE FRANCE	LILLE-CEDEX	FACULTE DE PHARMACIE, BP 83, F-59006 LILLE-CEDEX, FRANCE		1253-8078		ACTA BOT GALLICA	Acta Bot. Gall.	2014		161	3			SI	243	252	10		AZ5WF	CCC:000348288100003					2019-04-10J	Sritongchuay, TGale, GAStewart, AKerdkaew, TBumrungsri, S	Sritongchuay, Tuanjit; Gale, George A.; Stewart, Alyssa; Kerdkaew, Thanate; Bumrungsri, Sara		Seed Rain in Abandoned Clearings in a Lowland Evergreen Rain Forest in Southern Thailand	TROPICAL CONSERVATION SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bats, birds, edge effects, forest restoration, seed dispersal	HONG-KONG, TROPICAL PASTURE, BIRD COMMUNITIES, ISOLATED TREES, DISPERSAL, SUCCESSION, REGENERATION, CHINA, EDGE, BATS	Some forest restoration techniques treat remnant shrubs as competitors of newly planted tree seedlings, often clearing shrubs and weeds before trees are planted, but such plants may have significant value in attracting seed dispersers. In this study we examined the role of remnant trees and shrubs in grassland as a tool for passive and low cost ecological restoration. We determined the species density and abundance of both seed rain and its vertebrate dispersers in relation to different microhabitats (shrub-like vs. tree-like vegetation vs. grassland patches) in a 20-ha clearing of weeds mixed with early successional woody vegetation in a lowland evergreen forest in southern Thailand. We quantified seed rain from 60 seed traps placed in each microhabitat, and compared differences in seed abundance and species richness, while also examining the effect of distance from the forest edge. We found that seed rain abundance and seed species richness were significantly different among microhabitats. Seed rain was highest under shrubs, followed by under trees and then grassland, whereas seed species richness was highest under trees, followed by under shrubs, and grassland. Distance from the forest edge affected seed rain abundance under trees only. Birds (bulbuls and flowerpeckers) were the main dispersers of seeds at trees and shrubs respectively, while bats were the primary dispersers for the grassland patches. Different seed disperser groups appear to have complementary roles, such that sites containing a mixture of vegetation types including early successional vegetation may attract significantly more seed dispersers.	[Sritongchuay, T; Kerdkaew, T; Bumrungsri, S] Prince Songkla Univ, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, Hat Yai 90122, Thailand; [Gale, GA] King Mongkuts Univ Technol Thonburi, Sch Bioresources & Technol, Conservat Ecol Program, Bangkok 10150, Thailand; [Stewart, A] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA	Sritongchuay, T (reprint author), Prince Songkla Univ, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, Hat Yai 90122, Thailand.	t.sritongchuay@gmail.com		Stewart, Alyssa/0000-0002-7266-1081	0	12	TROPICAL CONSERVATION SCIENCE	MENLO PARK	PO BOX 0291, MENLO PARK, CA 94026-0291 USA	http://tropicalconservationscience.mongabay.com/	1940-0829		TROP CONSERV SCI	Trop. Conserv. Sci.	2014		7	3				572	585	14	10.1177/194008291400700314	AY5YB	CCC:000347644000015		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Kronenberger, JCipollini, MBaldvins, TMontgomery, ASimpson, A	Kronenberger, John; Cipollini, Martin; Baldvins, Thomas; Montgomery, Andrew; Simpson, Averi		Vegetative and Bird Community Response to Management in a Mountain Longleaf Pine Forest	NATURAL AREAS JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird community, management, Pinus palustris, prescribed fire, Southeast US, vegetative cover	GRASSLAND BIRDS, BREEDING BIRDS, FIRE, RESTORATION, SEASON, WOODPECKERS, POPULATIONS, ECOSYSTEMS, SAVANNAS	Over the last century, logging, land conversion, and fire suppression have reduced longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill.) ecosystems to a small fraction of their original range. Fire suppression, in particular, has facilitated encroachment by non-fire-tolerant trees and heavy litter buildup, leading to shifts in the native plant and animal community. In 2001, efforts were initiated to re-establish parts of Berry College's (Floyd County, GA) fire-suppressed mountain longleaf pine forest using combinations of prescribed fire, clear-cutting, planting, and herbicide application. We designed this study to determine the effects of management practices thus far on vegetation structure and the bird community. In 2009, vegetation structure data were collected in longleaf pine stands comprising three management classes ranging from low-to high-intensity management. Bird surveys were conducted from summer 2009 to spring 2010, and avifaunal community structure was related to vegetative characteristics within each stand. Unmanaged stands were strongly associated with common omnivorous, ground-foraging, and canopy-nesting birds of mixed woodlands. Intermediately managed stands contained mostly birds of mixed diet and aerial-and bark-feeding cavity nesters. Heavily managed stands were strongly associated with insect-, vertebrate-, seed-, and fruit-eating ground and shrub nesters, with several sightings of the near-threatened Bachman's sparrow (Peucaea aestivalis Lichtenstein). Intensity of management was positively correlated with canopy openness, understory development, and low litter levels. These vegetative differences helped explain the bird community makeup. We provide baseline data for assessing the impacts of management of mountain longleaf pine and similarly fire-suppressed forests on avian abundance and species richness.	[Kronenberger, J; Cipollini, M; Baldvins, T; Montgomery, A] Berry Coll, Dept Biol, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Simpson, A] Berry Coll, Dept Anim Sci, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA	Cipollini, M (reprint author), Berry Coll, Dept Biol, POB 49-0430, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA.	mcipollini@berry.edu			2	36	NATURAL AREAS ASSOC	ROCKFORD	320 SOUTH THIRD ST, ROCKFORD, IL 61104 USA	http://www.vmedia.com/naj	0885-8608		NAT AREA J	Nat. Areas J.	2014	JAN	34	1				8	23	16		AQ5VA	CCC:000342875500001					2019-04-10J	Schuette, PADiffendorfer, JEDeutschman, DHTremor, SSpencer, W	Schuette, P. A.; Diffendorfer, J. E.; Deutschman, D. H.; Tremor, S.; Spencer, W.		Carnivore distributions across chaparral habitats exposed to wildfire and rural housing in southern California	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF WILDLAND FIRE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	chaparral, human-wildland interface, occupancy	FOXES UROCYON-CINEREOARGENTEUS, YELLOWSTONE-NATIONAL-PARK, GRAY FOXES, HOME-RANGE, CENTRAL ARIZONA, FIRE SEVERITY, SIERRA-NEVADA, FOOD-HABITS, COYOTES, RESPONSES	Chaparral and coastal sage scrub habitats in southern California support biologically diverse plant and animal communities. However, native plant and animal species within these shrubland systems are increasingly exposed to human-caused wildfires and an expansion of the human-wildland interface. Few data exist to evaluate the effects of fire and anthropogenic pressures on plant and animal communities found in these environments. This is particularly true for carnivore communities. To address this knowledge gap, we collected detection-non-detection data with motion-sensor cameras and track plots to measure carnivore occupancy patterns following a large, human-caused wildfire (1134 km(2)) in eastern San Diego County, California, USA, in 2003. Our focal species set included coyote (Canis latrans), gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus), bobcat (Lynx rufus) and striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis). We evaluated the influence on species occupancies of the burned environment (burn edge, burn interior and unburned areas), proximity of rural homes, distance to riparian area and elevation. Gray fox occupancies were the highest overall, followed by striped skunk, coyote and bobcat. The three species considered as habitat and foraging generalists (gray fox, coyote, striped skunk) were common in all conditions. Occupancy patterns were consistent through time for all species except coyote, whose occupancies increased through time. In addition, environmental and anthropogenic variables had weak effects on all four species, and these responses were species-specific. Our results helped to describe a carnivore community exposed to frequent fire and rural human residences, and provide baseline data to inform fire management policy and wildlife management strategies in similar fire-prone ecosystems.	[Schuette, PA; Deutschman, DH] San Diego State Univ, Dept Biol, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Schuette, PA; Tremor, S] San Diego Nat Hist Museum, San Diego, CA 92101 USA; [Diffendorfer, JE] US Geol Survey, Geosci & Environm Change Sci Ctr, Denver, CO 80225 USA; [Spencer, W] Conservat Biol Inst, San Diego, CA 92116 USA	Schuette, PA (reprint author), Montana State Univ, Dept Ecol, 310 Lewis Hall, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA.	paul@zambiacarnivores.org		Diffendorfer, James/0000-0003-1093-6948	7	114	CSIRO PUBLISHING	COLLINGWOOD	150 OXFORD ST, PO BOX 1139, COLLINGWOOD, VICTORIA 3066, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1049-8001		INT J WILDLAND FIRE	Int. J. Wildland Fire	2014		23	4				591	600	10		AL6LX	CCC:000339245300014					2019-04-10J	Wilson, DJNorbury, GWalker, S	Wilson, Deborah J.; Norbury, Grant; Walker, Susan		How does woody succession affect population densities of passerine birds in New Zealand drylands?	NEW ZEALAND JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Carduelis chloris, Fringilla coelebs, habitat restoration, Prunella modularis, shrub encroachment, shrubland, Turdus merula	SOUTH ISLAND, SECONDARY SUCCESSION, NICHE OPPORTUNITIES, DIVERSITY, BIODIVERSITY, PATTERNS, KAIKOURA, ECOLOGY, EXPLAIN, SPAIN	The density of shrubs is increasing in many dry grassland ecosystems worldwide. In the dry interior of the South Island, New Zealand, secondary succession generates novel woody communities, as shrubs colonise anthropogenic grasslands where fire frequency has decreased. The avifauna of this dry region is also novel, with many indigenous birds extinct, extirpated or uncommon, and exotic species predominant. We studied how succession from grassland to shrubland habitats affects the abundance of dryland birds, by estimating population densities of nine common exotic and indigenous passerine bird species in dryland habitats in grassland, mixed grassland shrubland and shrubland, at three sites in Central Otago, South Island. We used distance sampling along line transects to estimate densities. Generally, succession from grassland to forest leads to decreased numbers of granivorous birds and feeding generalists, and increased numbers of insectivores. We therefore predicted that density of birds in five guilds would change as follows during succession to woodier habitats: (1) granivores: decrease, (2) a primarily ground-nesting, ground-feeding granivore-insectivore: decrease; (3) a tree- and shrub-nesting granivore-insectivore: increase; (4) ground-feeding insectivores: increase; (5) indigenous insectivores: increase. Our predictions were supported for only one guild. Yellowhammer (Emberiza citronella) (exotic primarily ground-nesting, ground-feeding granivore insectivore that prefers open country) declined in density as woody-species frequency increased. Exotic European goldfinch (Carduelis carduelis) and common redpoll (C. flammea) (granivores) were most abundant at intermediate woodiness. Densities of other guilds did not vary consistently with woodiness. We conclude that continued succession to shrubland in Central Otago will have little effect on densities of many common exotic passerine birds, but may lead to local declines in yellowhammer, and ultimately goldfinch and redpoll. Our density estimates for silvereye (Zosterops lateralis) and grey warbler (Gerygone igata) were lower than densities reported in forests; therefore later stages of succession may benefit these widespread indigenous insectivores.	[Wilson, DJ; Walker, S] Landcare Res, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Norbury, G] Landcare Res, Alexandra 9340, New Zealand	Wilson, DJ (reprint author), Landcare Res, Private Bag 1930, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand.	wilsond@landcareresearch.co.nz	Wilson, Deborah/B-8651-2008; Wilson, Deborah/	Wilson, Deborah/0000-0002-6401-3092	2	24	NEW ZEALAND ECOL SOC	CHRISTCHURCH	PO BOX 25178, CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND		0110-6465		NEW ZEAL J ECOL	N. Z. J. Ecol.	2014		38	2				257	267	11		AL4VY	CCC:000339134100009					2019-04-10J	Kurek, PKapusta, PHoleksa, J	Kurek, Przemyslaw; Kapusta, Pawel; Holeksa, Jan		Burrowing by badgers (Meles meles) and foxes (Vulpes vulpes) changes soil conditions and vegetation in a European temperate forest	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Soil disturbance, Burrowing carnivore, Soil physicochemical property, Plant community, Seed dispersal	BIALOWIEZA PRIMEVAL FOREST, ORYCTOLAGUS-CUNICULUS L., RED FOX, CENTRAL POLAND, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPE, SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION, SEED DISPERSAL, IBERIAN PEAR, HABITAT USE, DISTURBANCE	This study examined the effects of burrow digging and habitation by the European badger (Meles meles) and the red fox (Vulpes vulpes) on soil properties and the plant community. The vegetation of control plots located in a similar but undisturbed habitat was compared with that of 18 burrow plots established at badger setts (N = 9) and fox dens (N = 9) in a lowland forest area in Poland. Soil physicochemical properties at different disturbance levels (mounds, intermounds and reference areas) were also investigated. The animals altered nutrient availability in the burrow plots considerably by excavating material from deep soil horizons that were less acidic and higher in K, Ca, Mg and available P but poorer in C and N. The effect was stronger for the badger, probably because it displaced larger amounts of material and disturbed wider areas. The activity of the two carnivores induced similar changes in plant communities. They increased herbaceous species richness and caused a shift in the herbaceous species composition: versus the control plots, the burrow plots contained more fugitive species (short-living plants typical for disturbed environments), among which ruderal forbs, including nutrient-demanding species, dominated. The carnivores also increased the species richness of fleshy-fruited shrubs and trees. The primary reason for this was probably not burrowing but endozoochorous seed dispersal. Overall, the results indicate that the badger setts and fox dens differ significantly from the forest matrix in terms of soil and vegetation parameters, and that they contribute to habitat heterogeneity and biological diversity.	[Kurek, P; Kapusta, P; Holeksa, J] Polish Acad Sci, Wladyslaw Szafer Inst Bot, PL-31512 Krakow, Poland	Kurek, P (reprint author), Polish Acad Sci, Wladyslaw Szafer Inst Bot, Lubicz 46, PL-31512 Krakow, Poland.	p.kurek@botany.pl; p.kapusta@botany.pl; j.holeksa@botany.pl		Holeksa, Jan/0000-0001-5138-484X; Kapusta, Pawel/0000-0002-9126-5068; , Przemyslaw/0000-0002-5366-3057	1	54	SPRINGER JAPAN KK	TOKYO	CHIYODA FIRST BLDG EAST, 3-8-1 NISHI-KANDA, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 101-0065, JAPAN	http://www.springer.com	0912-3814		ECOL RES	Ecol. Res.	2014	JAN	29	1				1	11	11		302YQ	CCC:000330641500001		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Heinrich, KKWhiles, MRRoy, C	Heinrich, Kaleb K.; Whiles, Matt R.; Roy, Charlotte		Cascading Ecological Responses to an In-Stream Restoration Project in a Midwestern River	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird reproduction, ecological subsidies, insect emergence, Newbury weirs, riparian	ADULT AQUATIC INSECTS, BIRD INTEGRITY INDEX, PROTHONOTARY WARBLERS, HABITATS, SUCCESS, FOREST, LENGTH, PREY, USA, MACROINVERTEBRATE	River restoration projects are increasingly common, but assessments of ecological responses and overall success of the vast majority of efforts are lacking. Information on potential positive ecological effects of restoration efforts can be used to justify further projects and refine methods. We examined responses of multiple trophic levels, aquatic insects and riparian birds, to a series of rock weirs installed in an Illinois river to stabilize the channel. We quantified adult insect emergence and performed weekly point counts of birds in spring at four weir and four non-weir (control) sites. Emerging insect abundance was higher at control sites, but species richness and diversity were higher at weir sites. Total insect emergence production did not differ between site types, but emergence production of larger-bodied taxa was higher at weir sites. Ordinations and analysis of similarity indicated differences in insect and bird assemblages between site types. Birds showed a positive numerical response to large-bodied emerging insects, and total bird abundance was higher at weir sites. Clutch size and feeding rates of a focal bird species, Prothonotaria citrea (Prothonotary Warbler), did not differ between sites, but the number of hatchlings and fledglings was higher at control sites. Molothrus ater (cowbird) parasitism was higher at weir sites, likely because of increased edge habitat associated with weir construction activities. Results show positive ecological impacts of in-stream restoration and provide justification for further efforts. However, forest disturbance associated with construction could offset some benefits to some species, and thus refinements to procedures may be necessary.	[Heinrich, KK; Whiles, MR] So Illinois Univ, Dept Zool, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Heinrich, KK; Whiles, MR] So Illinois Univ, Ctr Ecol, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Roy, C] Minnesota Dept Nat Resources, Wetland Wildlife Populat & Res Grp, Bemidji, MN 56601 USA	Heinrich, KK (reprint author), Idaho State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Stream Ecol Ctr, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA.	kalebh@siu.edu			1	61	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2014	JAN	22	1				72	80	9		285BY	CCC:000329369400010					2019-04-10J	de Andrade, RBBarlow, JLouzada, JMestre, LSilveira, JVaz-de-Mello, FZCochrane, MA	de Andrade, Rafael Barreto; Barlow, Jos; Louzada, Julio; Mestre, Luiz; Silveira, Juliana; Vaz-de-Mello, Fernando Zagury; Cochrane, Mark A.		Biotic congruence in humid tropical forests: A multi-taxa examination of spatial distribution and responses to forest disturbance	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Conservation, Ants, Birds, Dung, beetles, Trees, Fire	AVIAN SPECIES RICHNESS, AMAZONIAN FORESTS, BIODIVERSITY INDICATORS, RECURRENT WILDFIRES, TAXONOMIC GROUPS, SEED DISPERSAL, DUNG BEETLE, RAIN-FOREST, DIVERSITY, SCALE	Biodiversity is vital for fully functional natural habitats, and the maintenance of biodiversity through effective conservation planning depends on reliable information on its spatial distribution and response to anthropogenic disturbance. However, gathering extensive data on multiple species is a difficult task, due to logistical and financial constraints and the lack of taxonomic expertise. A common resource to address this hurdle is the use of surrogate taxa: focusing on a limited set of species that provide information that can be extrapolated to wider patterns of biodiversity and ecological integrity. We examine this by (1) testing if species richness proportions among different taxa/methodology employed (ants, birds sampled with point counts, birds sampled with mist nets, dung beetles, trees and saplings) will be similar across different undisturbed Amazonian forests, and (2) if patterns of local congruence in richness and community composition are consistent in undisturbed forest and gradients of forest disturbed by forest fires. Our results indicate that species richness, across field sites, was positively associated at a regional scale. At a local scale, richness and community composition in unburned forest showed virtually no correlation between the taxa, but the inclusion of samples from burned forest increased the number of significant correlations. Vegetation (trees >= 10 cm diameter at breast height) composition was the best indicator of overall community composition of all other taxa. The congruence of regional patterns of richness is likely a consequence of macro variables such as climate and biogeographical history, and should not be extrapolated to local scales. Although the use of community composition metrics increased congruence at a local scale, we highlight the importance of using a broad ecological gradient. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[de Andrade, RB; Cochrane, MA] S Dakota State Univ, Pierre, SD USA; [Barlow, J] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster LA1 4YW, England; [Louzada, J; Silveira, J] Univ Fed Lavras, Lavras, Brazil; [Mestre, L] Univ Fed Parana, BR-80060000 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Vaz-de-Mello, FZ] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Cuiaba, MT, Brazil	de Andrade, RB (reprint author), Dept Biol Anim, Rua Monteiro Lobato 255, BR-13083862 Campinas, SP, Brazil.	rafsbio@yahoo.com.br	Barlow, Jos/E-7861-2014; Cochrane, Mark/A-1735-2018; Santos Pompeu, Paulo/G-8032-2014; Vaz-de-Mello, Fernando/A-1023-2009	Cochrane, Mark/0000-0002-4573-568X; Vaz-de-Mello, Fernando/0000-0001-9697-320X	3	66	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2014	JAN	36					572	581	10		281DV	CCC:000329081100062					2019-04-10J	Martin, PANewton, ACBullock, JM	Martin, Philip A.; Newton, Adrian C.; Bullock, James M.		Carbon pools recover more quickly than plant biodiversity in tropical secondary forests	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES			English	Article	Life Sciences (LS)	EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	secondary forest, forest restoration, biomass, carbon, plant biodiversity, meta-analysis	HUMAN-MODIFIED WORLD, LAND-USE CHANGE, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, BIOMASS ACCUMULATION, SHIFTING CULTIVATION, RAIN-FOREST, CONSERVATION VALUE, AGRICULTURAL LAND, SUCCESSION, STOCKS	Although increasing efforts are being made to restore tropical forests, little information is available regarding the time scales required for carbon and plant biodiversity to recover to the values associated with undisturbed forests. To address this knowledge gap, we carried out a meta-analysis comparing data from more than 600 secondary tropical forest sites with nearby undisturbed reference forests. Above-ground biomass approached equivalence to reference values within 80 years since last disturbance, whereas below-ground biomass took longer to recover. Soil carbon content showed little relationship with time since disturbance. Tree species richness recovered after about 50 years. By contrast, epiphyte richness did not reach equivalence to undisturbed forests. The proportion of undisturbed forest trees and epiphyte species found in secondary forests was low and changed little over time. Our results indicate that carbon pools and biodiversity show different recovery rates under passive, secondary succession and that colonization by undisturbed forest plant species is slow. Initiatives such as the Convention on Biological Diversity and REDD+ should therefore encourage active management to help to achieve their aims of restoring both carbon and biodiversity in tropical forests.	[Martin, PA; Bullock, JM] Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Wallingford OX10 8BB, Oxon, England; [Martin, PA; Newton, AC] Bournemouth Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Ctr Conservat Ecol & Environm Sci, Poole BH12 5BB, Dorset, England	Martin, PA (reprint author), Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Benson Lane, Wallingford OX10 8BB, Oxon, England.	pmart@ceh.ac.uk	Bullock, James/F-9997-2011; Newton, Adrian/B-3855-2009; Martin, Philip/; Martin, Phil/	Newton, Adrian/0000-0003-3591-6089; Martin, Philip/0000-0002-6804-2720; Martin, Phil/0000-0002-5346-8868	3	157	ROYAL SOC	LONDON	6-9 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, LONDON SW1Y 5AG, ENGLAND	http://royalsocietypublishing.org/journals	0962-8452		P ROY SOC B-BIOL SCI	Proc. R. Soc. B-Biol. Sci.	2013	DEC	280	1773				32236	32236	8		298LO	CCC:000330325600010	24197410	Green Published, Bronze			2019-04-10J	Czeszczewik, DWalankiewicz, WMitrus, CTumiel, TStanski, TSahel, MBednarczyk, G	Czeszczewik, Dorota; Walankiewicz, Wieslaw; Mitrus, Cezary; Tumiel, Tomasz; Stanski, Tomasz; Sahel, Mustapha; Bednarczyk, Grzegorz		Importance of dead wood resources for woodpeckers in coniferous stands of the Bialowieza Forest	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		PRIMEVAL TEMPERATE FOREST, NATIONAL-PARK, DENDROCOPOS-LEUCOTOS, FORAGING BEHAVIOR, NE POLAND, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, BOREAL, BIODIVERSITY, DYNAMICS	Many woodpecker species are known to be sensitive to the removal of dead wood. In 1999-2001 and 2007-2009 woodpeckers and dead wood abundance were studied in coniferous stands of the Biaowiea Forest, Poland. Transects (3.9-6 km long) were established in three zones of different types of management: 1) primeval, unmanaged stands (BNP); 2) partially managed nature reserve (RES); 3) heavily managed stands (MAN). Woodpeckers were counted along transects three times per season, and tree stand measurements (number of standing and fallen trees, diameter at breast height, volume of fallen logs) were made once every three years. Woodpecker indices were highest in BNP and lowest in RES in both three-year study periods. The highest number of species (seven) was recorded in RES. Indices of four woodpeckers including two focal species (Three-toed Woodpecker Picoides tridactylus and White-backed Woodpecker Dendrocopos leucotos) were dependent on the basal area of dead standing trees. The same relation was found for the whole woodpecker assemblage. The highest indices were recorded in BNP, where the highest density of dead standing trees was recorded, and the lowest in the MAN transect with the lowest density of dead trees. However in the RES plot the amount of dead wood was much lower than in the national park. We recommend that the management regulations in Polish nature reserves be changed. In coniferous reserves, it would be best to leave at least 2 m(2) ha(-1) (basal area) of freshly killed spruce Picea sp. after each bark beetle outbreak.	[Czeszczewik, D; Walankiewicz, W; Stanski, T; Sahel, M; Bednarczyk, G] Siedlce Univ Nat Sci & Humanities, Dept Zool, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland; [Mitrus, C] Rzeszow Univ, Dept Zool, PL-35601 Rzeszow, Poland	Czeszczewik, D (reprint author), Siedlce Univ Nat Sci & Humanities, Dept Zool, Prusa 12, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland.	dorotacz@uph.edu.pl		Walankiewicz, Wieslaw/0000-0002-9583-1856; Mitrus, Cezary/0000-0002-9864-5696; Stanski, Tomasz/0000-0003-4271-1161; Czeszczewik, Dorota/0000-0003-0523-1417	1	32	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2013	DEC	23	4				414	425	12		AA1ES	CCC:000330839900002		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Mudrzynski, BMNorment, CJ	Mudrzynski, Brad M.; Norment, Christopher J.		INFLUENCE OF HABITAT STRUCTURE AND FRUIT AVAILABILITY ON USE OF A NORTHEASTERN STOPOVER SITE BY FALL SONGBIRDS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	fruit, management, migration, Northeast, shrublands, stopover, succession	AUTUMN MIGRATION, SUCCESSIONAL HABITAT, MIGRANT LANDBIRDS, NEW-ENGLAND, BIRD USE, LAND-USE, ABUNDANCE, FRUGIVORY, SELECTION, FOREST	Many studies have suggested that early successional habitats are important for fall migrant and resident birds. In light of this, we studied habitat relationships, preferred fruiting shrub species, and fruit consumption by birds in early successional habitats during the fall at Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge, Alabama, New York, USA. We used transects to count birds in 12 shrub and 6 early successional forest sites during 2008-2009, and collected data to construct habitat models. We examined frugivory using a paired open/enclosed fruit branch experiment and by analyzing fecal samples of birds captured in mist nets. More fall songbirds were detected in shrublands than in forests across the 2 years, although forests with well-developed understories also had high detection levels. Total bird abundance was positively related to fruiting species richness and negatively related to small woody stem (0.0-2.5 cm) abundance. Abundance of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) was positively related to total shrub cover and fruit abundance on common buckthorns (Rhamnus cathartica), and negatively related to small and large (2.5-8.0 cm) stem abundance. Abundance of Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) was positively related to fruiting shrub species richness. Abundance of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) was positively related to gray dogwood (Cornus racemosa) fruit abundance, and negatively related to small stem abundance and bella honeysuckle (Lonicera X bella) fruit abundance. Fecal analysis suggested that birds as a whole disproportionately consumed fruit species relative to availability, and consumed more bella honeysuckle and common buckthorn than gray dogwood. Fewer fruits remained on open branches than enclosed branches, suggesting birds actively consumed fruits at our sites. Our results suggest that fall migrant and resident songbirds as a whole benefit more from mature shrublands that contain a diversity of fruiting shrub species than from early successional forests. While these characteristics may benefit the suite of fall migrants and residents at our location, appropriate habitat management may differ for other locations or migratory species.	[Mudrzynski, BM; Norment, CJ] SUNY Coll Brockport, Dept Environm Sci & Biol, Brockport, NY 14420 USA	Mudrzynski, BM (reprint author), SUNY Coll Brockport, Dept Environm Sci & Biol, Brockport, NY 14420 USA.	bmudrzyn@brockport.edu			6	44	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2013	DEC	125	4				744	754	11	10.1676/13-060.1	285GJ	CCC:000329381500006					2019-04-10J	Muhamad, DOkubo, SMiyashita, TParikesitTakeuchi, K	Muhamad, Dendi; Okubo, Satoru; Miyashita, Tadashi; Parikesit; Takeuchi, Kazuhiko		Effects of habitat type, vegetation structure, and proximity to forests on bird species richness in a forest-agricultural landscape of West Java, Indonesia	AGROFORESTRY SYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AGRICULTURE/AGRONOMY	Agriculture	Ecosystem functioning and services, Feeding guild, Generalized linear modeling, Mixed-tree agroforest, Mosaic landscape	BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, CACAO PLANTATIONS, NATIONAL-PARK, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITY, SUMATRA, AGROECOSYSTEMS, AGROFORESTRY, RESPONSES, SULAWESI	To halt biodiversity loss in the humid tropics of developing countries, it is crucial to understand the roles and effects of human-modified landscapes with fragmented forest remnants in maintaining biodiversity while fulfilling the demands of local communities and reducing poverty. To implement appropriate landscape planning for conserving biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, appropriate information is required about parameters of habitat suitability among various anthropogenic habitats with a range of distances to forests and vegetation characteristics, but such information is limited. We examined differences in avian communities between a remnant forest and four types of man-made forest (two mature plantations and two agroforests) in a forest-agricultural landscape of West Java, and we analyzed the effects of both local and landscape factors on various types of species richness in this landscape. The results from non-metric multidimensional scaling revealed avifauna in the two types of agroforest was clustered separately from that in the remnant forest, mainly because drastic declines in the abundance of forest specialists (including IUCN red-listed species) and their replacement with open-habitat generalists. The mixed-tree agroforests were colonized by 30 % of forest specialists and forest-edge species found in the remnant forest, and maintained the highest richness of species endemic to Indonesia among man-made forests, implying that some forest specialists and endemics might have adapted to ancient landscape heterogeneity. High proportion of insectivorous birds was found in the remnant forest (more than 50 %) and drastically decline in man-made forests, although the species richness of insectivores did not decline significantly in broad-leaved plantations. We concluded that protection of remnant forests should be prioritized to conserve forest bird diversity. However, as different environmental factors affected the richness values of different ecological groups, appropriate landscape design and habitat management could improve functional diversity in forest-agricultural landscapes in the tropics.	[Muhamad, D; Okubo, S; Miyashita, T; Takeuchi, K] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Agr & Life Sci, Dept Ecosyst Studies, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo 1138657, Japan; [Parikesit] Padjadjaran State Univ, Inst Ecol, Bandung 40132, West Java, Indonesia; [Parikesit] Padjadjaran State Univ, Dept Biol, Bandung 40132, West Java, Indonesia; [Takeuchi, K] Univ Tokyo, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo 1138654, Japan	Muhamad, D (reprint author), Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Agr & Life Sci, Dept Ecosyst Studies, Bunkyo Ku, Yayoi 1-1-1, Tokyo 1138657, Japan.	muhamad.dendi@gmail.com	Muhamad, Dendi/N-8781-2013; Okubo, Satoru/E-6236-2010; , Parikesit/	Muhamad, Dendi/0000-0001-8882-6322; Okubo, Satoru/0000-0002-3736-513X; , Parikesit/0000-0001-8214-7126	3	121	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0167-4366		AGROFOREST SYST	Agrofor. Syst.	2013	DEC	87	6				1247	1260	14		253JC	CCC:000327080000003					2019-04-10J	Halme, PAllen, KAAunins, ABradshaw, RHWBrumelis, GCada, VClear, JLEriksson, AMHannon, GHyvarinen, EIkauniece, SIrsenaite, RJonsson, BGJunninen, KKareksela, SKomonen, AKotiaho, JSKouki, JKuuluvainen, TMazziotta, AMonkkonen, MNyholm, KOlden, AShorohova, EStrange, NToivanen, TVanha-Majamaa, IWallenius, TYlisirnio, ALZin, E	Halme, Panu; Allen, Katherine A.; Aunins, Ainars; Bradshaw, Richard H. W.; Brumelis, Guntis; Cada, Vojtech; Clear, Jennifer L.; Eriksson, Anna-Maria; Hannon, Gina; Hyvarinen, Esko; Ikauniece, Sandra; Irsenaite, Reda; Jonsson, Bengt Gunnar; Junninen, Kaisa; Kareksela, Santtu; Komonen, Atte; Kotiaho, Janne S.; Kouki, Jari; Kuuluvainen, Timo; Mazziotta, Adriano; Monkkonen, Mikko; Nyholm, Kristiina; Olden, Anna; Shorohova, Ekaterina; Strange, Niels; Toivanen, Tero; Vanha-Majamaa, Ilkka; Wallenius, Tuomo; Ylisirnio, Anna-Liisa; Zin, Ewa		Challenges of ecological restoration: Lessons from forests in northern Europe	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Boreal forest, Climate change, Dead wood, Disturbance dynamics, Ecosystem services, Fire regime, Forest management, Habitat loss, Monitoring, Reference ecosystems	DEAD WOOD, BOREAL FORESTS, SPECIES COMPOSITION, CONIFEROUS FORESTS, ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, OLD-GROWTH, FIRE, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, DYNAMICS	The alarming rate of ecosystem degradation has raised the need for ecological restoration throughout different biomes and continents. North European forests may appear as one of the least vulnerable ecosystems from a global perspective, since forest cover is not rapidly decreasing and many ecosystem services remain at high level. However, extensive areas of northern forests are heavily exploited and have lost a major part of their biodiversity value. There is a strong requirement to restore these areas towards a more natural condition in order to meet the targets of the Convention on Biological Diversity. Several northern countries are now taking up this challenge by restoring forest biodiversity with increasing intensity. The ecology and biodiversity of boreal forests are relatively well understood making them a good model for restoration activities in many other forest ecosystems. Here we introduce northern forests as an ecosystem, discuss the historical and recent human impact and provide a brief status report on the ecological restoration projects and research already conducted there. Based on this discussion, we argue that before any restoration actions commence, the ecology of the target ecosystem should be established with the need for restoration carefully assessed and the outcome properly monitored. Finally, we identify the most important challenges that need to be solved in order to carry out efficient restoration with powerful and long-term positive impacts on biodiversity: coping with unpredictability, maintaining connectivity in time and space, assessment of functionality, management of conflicting interests and social restrictions and ensuring adequate funding. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Halme, P; Kareksela, S; Komonen, A; Kotiaho, JS; Mazziotta, A; Monkkonen, M; Nyholm, K; Olden, A; Toivanen, T] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Biol & Environm Sci, FI-40014 Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Halme, P] Univ Copenhagen, Nat Hist Museum Denmark, Ctr Macroecol Evolut & Climate, DK-1168 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Allen, KA; Bradshaw, RHW; Clear, JL; Hannon, G] Univ Liverpool, Sch Environm Sci, Liverpool L69 3BX, Merseyside, England; [Aunins, A; Brumelis, G] Univ Latvia, Fac Biol, Riga, Latvia; [Cada, V] Czech Univ Life Sci Prague, Fac Forestry & Wood Sci, Prague, Czech Republic; [Eriksson, AM; Jonsson, BG] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Nat Sci, Ostersund, Sweden; [Ikauniece, S] Daugavpils Univ, Fac Nat Sci & Math, Daugavpils, Latvia; [Irsenaite, R] Nat Res Ctr, Inst Bot, Vilnius, Lithuania; [Kouki, J] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Joensuu, Finland; [Kuuluvainen, T; Wallenius, T] Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Shorohova, E] St Petersburg State Forest Univ, St Petersburg, Russia; [Shorohova, E; Vanha-Majamaa, I] Finnish Forest Res Inst Metla, Vantaa, Finland; [Strange, N] Univ Copenhagen, Ctr Macroecol Evolut & Climate, DK-1168 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Toivanen, T] BirdLife Finland, FI-00100 Helsinki, Finland; [Zin, E] European Ctr Nat Forests, Forest Res Inst IBL, Bialowieza, Poland; [Zin, E] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Southern Swedish Forest Res Ctr, Alnarp, Sweden	Halme, P (reprint author), Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Biol & Environm Sci, POB 35, FI-40014 Jyvaskyla, Finland.	panu.halme@jyu.fi	Mazziotta, Adriano/C-1538-2018; Shorohova, Ekaterina/T-6181-2017; Aunins, Ainars/H-4927-2011; publist, CMEC/C-3010-2012; publicationpage, cmec/B-4405-2017; Kouki, Jari/B-6241-2008; Zin, Ewa/E-3538-2016; Ylisirnio, Anna-Liisa/L-4444-2013; Kotiaho, Janne/; Clear, Jennifer/; Brumelis, Guntis/; Monkkonen, Mikko/; Strange, Niels/	Mazziotta, Adriano/0000-0003-2088-3798; Shorohova, Ekaterina/0000-0002-8238-927X; Aunins, Ainars/0000-0002-6051-1879; Kouki, Jari/0000-0003-2624-8592; Zin, Ewa/0000-0001-6081-440X; Kotiaho, Janne/0000-0002-4732-784X; Clear, Jennifer/0000-0002-7588-2576; Brumelis, Guntis/0000-0002-8385-2553; Monkkonen, Mikko/0000-0001-8897-3314; Strange, Niels/0000-0002-8842-8022	6	174	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2013	NOV	167					248	256	9		277FL	CCC:000328804300028					2019-04-10J	Moura, NGLees, ACAndretti, CBDavis, BJWSolar, RRCAleixo, ABarlow, JFerreira, JGardner, TA	Moura, Nargila G.; Lees, Alexander C.; Andretti, Christian B.; Davis, Bradley J. W.; Solar, Ricardo R. C.; Aleixo, Alexandre; Barlow, Jos; Ferreira, Joice; Gardner, Toby A.		Avian biodiversity in multiple-use landscapes of the Brazilian Amazon	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Tropical agriculture, Forest disturbance, Landscape-scale, Biodiversity, Brazilian Forest Code, Private lands	SPECIES-DIVERSITY, FOREST FRAGMENTS, CONSERVATION VALUE, SECONDARY FORESTS, TROPICAL PRIMARY, BIRD COMMUNITY, LAND-USE, DEFORESTATION, WILDFIRES, AVIFAUNA	Habitat loss and degradation is the most pervasive threat to tropical biodiversity worldwide. Amazonia sits at the frontline of efforts to both improve the productivity of tropical agriculture and prevent the loss of biodiversity. To date our understanding of the biodiversity impacts of agricultural expansion in Amazonia is restricted to findings from small scale studies that typically assess the importance of a limited number of land-use types. Here we investigate local and landscape-scale responses of Amazonian avian assemblages to land-cover changes across a gradient of land-use intensity ranging from undisturbed primary forest to mechanised agriculture in 36 drainage catchments distributed across two large regions of the eastern Brazilian Amazon. We found that species richness of forest-associated birds declined progressively along this gradient, accompanied by marked shifts in assemblage composition. We found significant changes in species composition, but not richness, between primary forests that had been subject to different levels of disturbance from logging and fire. Secondary forests retained levels of species richness intermediate between primary forests and production areas, but lacked many forest-dependent species. Production areas (arable crops, cattle pastures and plantation forests) all retained far fewer species than any forest habitat, and were largely dominated by taxa commonly associated with open areas. Diversity partitioning revealed that species composition varied the most among undisturbed forest transects, and steadily decreased with increasing forest degradation and land-use intensity. Our results emphasise the importance of protecting both remaining areas of primary forest in private lands, as well as protecting the same forests from further disturbance events. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Moura, NG] Fed Univ Para, Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Curso Posgrad Zool, BR-66040170 Belem, Para, Brazil; [Lees, AC; Aleixo, A] Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, BR-66040170 Belem, Para, Brazil; [Davis, BJW] Birding Mato Grosso, BR-78580000 Alta Floresta, MT, Brazil; [Solar, RRC] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Entomol, BR-36570000 Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Solar, RRC; Barlow, J] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster Environm Ctr, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, England; [Ferreira, J] Embrapa Amazonia Oriental, BR-66095100 Belem, Para, Brazil; [Gardner, TA] Univ Cambridge, Dept Zool, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, England	Moura, NG (reprint author), Fed Univ Para, Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Curso Posgrad Zool, Caixa Postal 399, BR-66040170 Belem, Para, Brazil.	nargilamoura@yahoo.com.br	Solar, Ricardo/F-2043-2010; Lees, Alexander/D-2189-2014; Aleixo, Alexandre/L-3135-2013; Barlow, Jos/E-7861-2014; Lees, Alexander/	Solar, Ricardo/0000-0001-5627-4017; Aleixo, Alexandre/0000-0002-7816-9725; Lees, Alexander/0000-0001-7603-9081	4	101	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2013	NOV	167					339	348	10		277FL	CCC:000328804300039					2019-04-10J	Zellweger, FBraunisch, VBaltensweiler, ABollmann, K	Zellweger, Florian; Braunisch, Veronika; Baltensweiler, Andri; Bollmann, Kurt		Remotely sensed forest structural complexity predicts multi species occurrence at the landscape scale	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biodiversity, Birds, Habitat, LiDAR, NDVI, Structure	CAPERCAILLIE TETRAO-UROGALLUS, HABITAT DISTRIBUTION MODELS, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, 3-TOED WOODPECKER, AIRBORNE LIDAR, CENTRAL-EUROPE, BIRD, BIODIVERSITY, DIVERSITY, ECOLOGY	Along with plant species composition forest structural complexity is an important determinant of forest biodiversity, but difficult to predict in space from field data. We analyzed forest structural complexity based on a comprehensive set of variables derived from nationally available, area-wide remote sensing, particularly LiDAR data. We generated variables related to vertical and horizontal structural heterogeneity, as well as site factors potentially indicating the abundance of weakened trees or snags. We used them to predict the occurrence of four bird species with narrow and complementary structural habitat requirements, together being indicative of structurally diverse forests. Presence/absence data of Capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus), Hazel Grouse (Bonasa bonasia), Three-toed Woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus) and Pygmy Owl (Glaucidium passerinum) from three biogeographic mountain regions in Switzerland were used to calibrate species distribution models (boosted regression trees BRT) for each species individually, as well as for the sympatric occurrence of at least three of the four target species. The predictive deviances explained (D-2) and the AUC values obtained from cross-validation ranged from 15.5% to 63.1% and 0.77% to 0.97% respectively. Sympatric species occurrence reflecting overall forest structural complexity was predicted best, with an outstanding accuracy. To support management and monitoring schemes we identified variable threshold effects based on partial dependence plots. Variables related to vertical foliage distributions were most important, followed by horizontal structural attributes such as canopy height variations, forest edges and gaps. Site factors such as topographic position improved all models and were most important for the species depending on weakened trees and dead wood. We conclude that recent advances in remote sensing allow for large-scale determination of forest structural characteristics suitable for developing species and habitat distribution models of considerable generality, while keeping an unprecedented level of detail. Our approach allows forest managers to amend regional and countrywide management plans with reliable maps depicting areas of high forest structural complexity and habitat quality, which will facilitate the integration of conservation-relevant information into multifunctional forestry. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Zellweger, F; Baltensweiler, A; Bollmann, K] Swiss Fed Inst Forest Snow & Landscape Res WSL, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland; [Braunisch, V] Univ Bern, Inst Ecol & Evolut, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Braunisch, V] Forest Res Inst Baden Wurttemberg, D-79100 Freiburg, Germany	Zellweger, F (reprint author), Swiss Fed Inst Forest Snow & Landscape Res WSL, Zurcherstr 111, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland.	florian.zellweger@wsl.ch; veronika.braunisch@iee.unibe.ch; andri.baltensweiler@wsl.ch; kurt.bollmann@wsl.ch	Zellweger, Florian/C-5712-2016	Zellweger, Florian/0000-0003-1265-9147	7	144	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2013	NOV	307					303	312	10		249IF	CCC:000326770200030					2019-04-10J	Resetarits, WJBinckley, CA	Resetarits, William J., Jr.; Binckley, Christopher A.		Patch quality and context, but not patch number, drive multi-scale colonization dynamics in experimental aquatic landscapes	OECOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Field-of-dreams hypothesis, Habitat selection, Island biogeography, Metacommunities, Propagule redirection	HABITAT SELECTION, OVIPOSITION SITE, METAPOPULATION DYNAMICS, POPULATION-DYNAMICS, SPECIES COMPOSITION, COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, SPATIAL CONTAGION, CLIMATE-CHANGE, AREA, PREDATION	Colonization and extinction are primary drivers of local population dynamics, community structure, and spatial patterns of biological diversity. Existing paradigms of island biogeography, metapopulation biology, and metacommunity ecology, as well as habitat management and conservation biology based on those paradigms, emphasize patch size, number, and isolation as primary characteristics influencing colonization and extinction. Habitat selection theory suggests that patch quality could rival size, number, and isolation in determining rates of colonization and resulting community structure. We used naturally colonized experimental landscapes to address four issues: (a) how do colonizing aquatic beetles respond to variation in patch number, (b) how do they respond to variation in patch quality, (c) does patch context affect colonization dynamics, and (d) at what spatial scales do beetles respond to habitat variation? Increasing patch number had no effect on per patch colonization rates, while patch quality and context were critical in determining colonization rates and resulting patterns of abundance and species richness at multiple spatial scales. We graphically illustrate how variation in immigration rates driven by perceived predation risk (habitat quality) can further modify dynamics of the equilibrium theory of island biogeography beyond predator-driven effects on extinction rates. Our data support the importance of patch quality and context as primary determinants of colonization rate, occupancy, abundance, and resulting patterns of species richness, and reinforce the idea that management of metapopulations for species preservation, and metacommunities for local and regional diversity, should incorporate habitat quality into the predictive equation.	[Resetarits, WJ] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Binckley, CA] Arcadia Univ, Dept Biol, Glenside, PA 19038 USA	Resetarits, WJ (reprint author), Texas Tech Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA.	william.resetarits@ttu.edu			0	82	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0029-8549		OECOLOGIA	Oecologia	2013	NOV	173	3				933	946	14		236SO	CCC:000325819700028	23609801				2019-04-10J	Young, JSAmmon, EMWeisberg, PJDilts, TENewton, WEWong-Kone, DCHeki, LG	Young, Jock S.; Ammon, Elisabeth M.; Weisberg, Peter J.; Dilts, Thomas E.; Newton, Wesley E.; Wong-Kone, Diane C.; Heki, Lisa G.		Comparison of bird community indices for riparian restoration planning and monitoring	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Birds, Community index, Great Basin, LiDAR, Riparian, Species richness	VEGETATION STRUCTURE, ECOLOGICAL INTEGRITY, HABITAT USE, CONSERVATION, INDICATORS, LIDAR, ASSEMBLAGES, ECOSYSTEMS, PARTNERS, SUCCESS	The use of a bird community index that characterizes ecosystem integrity is very attractive to conservation planners and habitat managers, particularly in the absence of any single focal species. In riparian areas of the western USA, several attempts at arriving at a community index signifying a functioning riparian bird community have been made previously, mostly resorting to expert opinions or national conservation rankings for species weights. Because extensive local and regional bird monitoring data were available for Nevada, we were able to develop three different indices that were derived empirically, rather than from expert opinion. We formally examined the use of three species weighting schemes in comparison with simple species richness, using different definitions of riparian species assemblage size, for the purpose of predicting community response to changes in vegetation structure from riparian restoration. For the three indices, species were weighted according to the following criteria: (1) the degree of riparian habitat specialization based on regional data, (2) the relative conservation ranking of landbird species, and (3) the degree to which a species is under-represented compared to the regional species pool for riparian areas. To evaluate the usefulness of these indices for habitat restoration planning and monitoring, we modeled them using habitat variables that are expected to respond to riparian restoration efforts, using data from 64 sampling sites in the Walker River Basin in Nevada and California. We found that none of the species-weighting schemes performed any better as an index for evaluating overall habitat condition than using species richness alone as a community index. Based on our findings, the use of a fairly complete list of 30-35 riparian specialists appears to be the best indicator group for predicting the response of bird communities to the restoration of riparian vegetation. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Young, JS; Ammon, EM] Great Basin Bird Observ, Reno, NV 89502 USA; [Weisberg, PJ; Dilts, TE] Univ Nevada, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Newton, WE] US Geol Survey, Northern Prairie Wildlife Res Ctr, Jamestown, ND 58401 USA; [Wong-Kone, DC] Otis Bay Ecol Consultants, Verdi, NV 89439 USA; [Heki, LG] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Reno, NV 89502 USA	Young, JS (reprint author), Great Basin Bird Observ, 1755 East Plumb Lane 256, Reno, NV 89502 USA.	young@gbbo.org			2	80	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2013	NOV	34					159	167	9		210UR	CCC:000323860700018		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Regnery, BCouvet, DKubarek, LJulien, JFKerbiriou, C	Regnery, Baptiste; Couvet, Denis; Kubarek, Loren; Julien, Jean-Francois; Kerbiriou, Christian		Tree microhabitats as indicators of bird and bat communities in Mediterranean forests	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Tree microhabitats, Stand characteristics, Biodiversity indicators, Birds, Bats	HABITAT SELECTION, ROOST SELECTION, HOME-RANGE, CAVITY, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, WOODPECKERS, MANAGEMENT, RICHNESS, DECAY	Tree microhabitats (e.g., canopy deadwood, cavities, and loose bark) may play an important role in forest biodiversity conservation. Indeed, many species depend on tree microhabitats during their life-cycles for food, shelter, and breeding habitat. Although recent studies have developed a set of definitions and descriptions for tree microhabitats, the relationships between tree microhabitat inventory data and biodiversity remain poorly understood. In this study, we identified relationships among tree microhabitat variables (i.e., the density and diversity of microhabitat) and bird and bat metrics using data from 59 plots in 3 Mediterranean forest ecosystems in France. In each plot, 9 types of tree microhabitats were inventoried: canopy deadwood; woodpecker cavities; non-woodpecker cavities (divided into lower, medium, and upper cavities); Cerambyx cavities; loose bark or cracks; conks of fungi; and ivy. We also assessed structural characteristics (e.g., basal area, stand height), the time since last cutting (i.e., the number of years since the stand was last cut), the number of forest habitats, and the distance to the nearest road. We performed bird and bat inventories in the same plots and we used abundances and a number of bird and bat community indices (e.g., species richness, mean forest specialization). We found that variations in tree microhabitat (more specifically, variations in microhabitat diversity) were a major factor in explaining the abundance and community response of birds and bats. Bird species, including cavity-nesting birds, were most strongly affected by tree microhabitat diversity, while bat species were positively affected by both the diversity of the tree microhabitat and the density of cavities created by Cerambyx spp. Tree microhabitats were better predictors of bird and bat responses than other stand characteristics. Tree microhabitat characteristics provide a reliable measure of ecological niches in forest ecosystems and we propose that these microhabitats be used as indicators for assessing biodiversity in forests. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Regnery, B; Couvet, D; Kubarek, L; Julien, JF; Kerbiriou, C] CNRS MNHN PARIS VI, UMR 7204, F-75005 Paris, France	Regnery, B (reprint author), Museum Natl Hist Nat, UMR 7204, 55 Rue Buffon, F-75005 Paris, France.	regnery@mnhn.fr		couvet, denis/0000-0001-8692-9694; Kerbiriou, Christian/0000-0001-6080-4762	5	171	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2013	NOV	34					221	230	10		210UR	CCC:000323860700025					2019-04-10J	Beauchard, OJacobs, SYsebaert, TMeire, P	Beauchard, Olivier; Jacobs, Sander; Ysebaert, Tom; Meire, Patrick		Avian response to tidal freshwater habitat creation by controlled reduced tide system	ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AQUATIC SCIENCES	Marine & Freshwater Biology	tidal freshwater wetlands, habitat creation, avifauna, species community structure, wetland birds	BIRD SPECIES-DIVERSITY, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, BENTHIC INVERTEBRATES, MANAGED REALIGNMENT, ESTUARY, MARSH, COMMUNITIES, SHOREBIRDS, COLONIZATION, ASSEMBLAGES	Human activities have caused extensive loss of estuarine wetlands, and the restoration of functional habitats remains a challenging task given several physical constraints in strongly embanked estuaries. In the Schelde estuary (Belgium), a new tidal marsh restoration technique, Controlled Reduced Tide system (CRT), is being implemented in the freshwater zone. A polder area of 8.2 ha was equipped with a CRT to test the system functionality. Among different ecological compartments that are studied for assessing the CRT restoration success, avifauna was monitored over three years. The tidal regime generated a habitat gradient typical of tidal freshwater wetlands along which the distributions of bird and ecological groups were studied. 103 bird species were recorded over the three years. In addition to many generalist bird species, several specialist species typical of the North Sea coast were present. Thirty-nine species of local and/or international conservation interest were encountered, emphasising the importance of this habitat for certain species. Species communities and ecological groups were strongly habitat specific and non-randomly organized across habitats. Spatiotemporal analyses highlighted a rapid habitat colonization, and a subsequent stable habitat community structure across seasons in spite of strong seasonal species turnovers. Hence, these findings advocate CRT implementation as a means to effectively compensate for wetland habitat loss. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Beauchard, O; Jacobs, S; Meire, P] Univ Antwerp, Ecosyst Management Res Grp, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium; [Beauchard, O; Ysebaert, T] Netherlands Inst Sea Res NIOZ, NL-4400 AC Yerseke, Netherlands; [Jacobs, S] Minist Flemish Community, Inst Nat Conservat, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium; [Ysebaert, T] IMARES, NL-4400 AB Yerseke, Netherlands	Beauchard, O (reprint author), Netherlands Inst Sea Res NIOZ, POB 140, NL-4400 AC Yerseke, Netherlands.	olivier.beauchard@nioz.nl		Jacobs, Sander/0000-0003-4674-4817	1	46	ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	LONDON	24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND	http://www.apnet.com	0272-7714		ESTUAR COAST SHELF S	Estuar. Coast. Shelf Sci.	2013	OCT	131					12	23	12		229ZC	CCC:000325305400003					2019-04-10J	Katselis, GNMoutopoulos, DKDimitriou, ENKoutsikopoulos, C	Katselis, George N.; Moutopoulos, Dimitrios K.; Dimitriou, Evagelos N.; Koutsikopoulos, Constantin		Long-term changes of fisheries landings in enclosed gulf lagoons (Amvrakikos gulf, W Greece): Influences of fishing and other human impacts	ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AQUATIC SCIENCES	Marine & Freshwater Biology	fishery landings, species composition changes, long-term trends, coastal lagoons, human impacts, Amvrakikos gulf	IONIAN SEA, ANGUILLA-ANGUILLA, SPATIAL-PATTERNS, COASTAL LAGOONS, EUROPEAN EEL, VARIABILITY, ASSEMBLAGE, ESTUARIES, TRENDS, FARMS	The present study analyses long-term annual fishery landings time series (1980-2007) for species derived from six lagoons (covering about 70 km(2)) around an important European wetland, the fjord-like Amvrakikos gulf. Landing trends for most abundant species revealed that typical lagoon fish species-groups, such as Mugilidae (Mugil cephalus, Chelon labrosus, Liza saliens, Liza aurata and Liza ramada), eels (Anguilla anguilla) and Gobies (mainly Zosteriosessor ophiocephalus) had largely decreased, while the landings of Sparus aurata increased during the entire study period. These trends led to a significant change in species composition during recent years that might be attributed to large-scale climatic changes as well as serious anthropogenic impacts that degraded the water quality and altered the hydrology within the gulf and lagoons, the increase of fishing exploitation in Amvrakikos gulf, the expansion of aquaculture activities within the gulf, the application of new fishing management practices in lagoons, and the increase of fish-eating sea-bird populations. The findings are needed for the implementation of an efficient and integrated management tool for the study of coastal systems. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Katselis, GN; Moutopoulos, DK] Technol Educ Inst Messolonghiou TEI M, Dept Aquaculture & Fisheries Management, Nea Ktiria 30200, Messolonghi, Greece; [Dimitriou, EN] Prefecture Aitoloakarnania, Mesolongion 30200, Greece; [Koutsikopoulos, C] Univ Patras, Dept Biol, Rion, Greece	Katselis, GN (reprint author), Technol Educ Inst Western Greece TEI WD, Dept Aquaculture & Fisheries Management, Nea Ktiria 30200, Messolonghi, Greece.	gkatsel@teimes.gr		Moutopoulos, Dimitrios K/0000-0001-5873-9893	2	26	ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	LONDON	24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND	http://www.apnet.com	0272-7714		ESTUAR COAST SHELF S	Estuar. Coast. Shelf Sci.	2013	OCT	131					31	40	10		229ZC	CCC:000325305400005					2019-04-10J	Reynolds, CSymes, CT	Reynolds, Chevonne; Symes, Craig T.		Grassland bird response to vegetation structural heterogeneity and clearing of invasive bramble	AFRICAN ZOOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	grassland birds, bird diversity, disturbance, grassland management, heterogeneity, invasive vegetation	HABITAT HETEROGENEITY, SPATIAL HETEROGENEITY, MANAGEMENT, FIRE, TRANSFORMATION, CONSERVATION	Spatial and temporal patterns of disturbance and the subsequent heterogeneity are critical in maintaining biodiversity within grassland ecosystems. Grassland birds have evolved within this 'shifting mosaic' to become reliant on specific habitat characteristics maintained under varying levels of both natural and anthropogenic disturbance. Unfortunately, grasslands in South Africa have been extensively transformed and remain poorly conserved, threatening grassland avifauna. Mistbelt grassland is a threatened vegetation type endemic to the province of KwaZulu-Natal, of which only 0.3% is formally protected. This study investigated seasonal and patch type heterogeneity in a Mistbelt grassland avian community by determining avian community structure and composition in four patch types, i.e.i) untransformed open grassland, burnt grassland, iii) bramble-invaded and, iv) bramble-cleared grassland, during winter and summer. Avian assemblages were significantly different between the different patch types for each season. The bramble patch type negatively affected grassland bird species diversity Bramble-cleared grassland and untransformed grassland had similar vegetation structure and avian communities in the summer, suggesting that the grassland bird community benefitted soon after the clearing of invasive vegetation. This study provides further evidence that bird diversity is enhanced in structurally heterogeneous grassland landscapes. Furthermore, the protection and appropriate management of privately owned Mistbelt grassland, conserved in the form of rangeland, is an important refuge for threatened and endemic avifauna, such as the globally-threatened blue swallow (Hirundo atrocaerulea) and wattled crane (Bugeranus carunculatus).	[Reynolds, C; Symes, CT] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa	Reynolds, C (reprint author), Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, Private Bag 3, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa.	chevonne.reynolds@gmail.com		Symes, Craig/0000-0002-8027-7055; Reynolds, Chevonne/0000-0002-2345-7017	1	20	ZOOLOGICAL SOC SOUTHERN AFRICA	SCOTTSVILLE	AFRICAN ZOOLOGY CIRCULATION OFFICE, UNIV KWAZULU-NATAL, SCHOOL BIOL & CONSERVATION SCI, P B X01, SCOTTSVILLE 3209, SOUTH AFRICA	http://www.up.ac.za/academic/acadorgs/zssa	1562-7020		AFR ZOOL	Afr. Zool.	2013	OCT	48	2				228	239	12	10.3377/004.048.0217	AG3CO	CCC:000335293600002					2019-04-10J	Collier, BAFarrell, SLLong, AMCampomizzi, AJHays, KBLaake, JLMorrison, MLWilkins, RN	Collier, Bret A.; Farrell, Shannon L.; Long, Ashley M.; Campomizzi, Andrew J.; Hays, K. Brian; Laake, Jeffrey L.; Morrison, Michael L.; Wilkins, R. Neal		MODELING SPATIALLY EXPLICIT DENSITIES OF ENDANGERED AVIAN SPECIES IN A HETEROGENEOUS LANDSCAPE	AUK			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Black-capped Vireo, distance sampling, disturbance, Golden-cheeked Warbler, mark recapture, military training, point transect, unmodeled heterogeneity	GOLDEN-CHEEKED WARBLERS, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, HABITAT QUALITY, MARK-RECAPTURE, DISTANCE, OCCUPANCY, OBSERVER, ABUNDANCE, FRAGMENTATION, AVAILABILITY	Relating population density to spatially explicit habitat characteristics can inform management by directing efforts to areas with lower densities or focusing conservation and land protection on high-density areas. We conducted point-transect surveys for the endangered Golden-cheeked Warbler (Setophaga chrysoparia) and Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapilla) in the live-fire region of Fort Hood, Texas. We used mark recapture distance sampling and combined a Horvitz-Thompson estimator with a habitat-based, resource-selection gradient to estimate spatially explicit density for both species. We detected Golden-cheeked Warblers at 120 locations (202, 197, and 89 detected by primary, secondary, and both observers, respectively) and Black-capped Vireos at 173 locations (241, 255, and 107 detected by primary, secondary, and both observers, respectively). For Golden-cheeked Warblers, the average ( SE) composite detection probability estimate within a 100-m point-sample radius was 0.57 +/- 0.14, and for vireos it was 0.24 +/- 0.02. Estimated mean density (singing males ha(-1)) was 0.14 +/- 0.03 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.08-0.23) and 0.47 +/- 0.05 (95% CI: 0.38-0.60) for Golden-cheeked Warblers and Black-capped Vireos, respectively. Our analysis suggested evidence of heterogeneity in the detection process for both species, as well as imperfect detection at distance g(0), both of which would bias estimated densities if ignored. Additionally, both species exhibited spatial variability in estimated densities, with those areas that had higher occurrence probabilities typically having higher estimated density. In the absence of spatially explicit density prediction, managers must treat all losses of potential habitat for endangered species uniformly, despite likely differences in conservation value. Our approach could be used to ascertain areas of changing density in relation to changing habitat conditions over time and space.	[Collier, BA; Farrell, SL; Campomizzi, AJ] Texas A&M Univ, Inst Renewable Nat Resources, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Long, AM; Morrison, ML] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Wildlife & Fisheries Sci, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Hays, KB] Texas A&M Univ, Inst Renewable Nat Resources, Gatesville, TX 76528 USA; [Laake, JL] Alaska Fisheries Sci Ctr, Natl Marine Mammal Lab, Seattle, WA 98115 USA; [Wilkins, RN] East Wildlife Fdn, Corpus Christi, TX 78411 USA	Collier, BA (reprint author), Texas A&M Univ, Inst Renewable Nat Resources, College Stn, TX 77843 USA.	bret@tamu.edu	Farrell, Shannon/L-3215-2016	Farrell, Shannon/0000-0002-8265-3448	0	39	OXFORD UNIV PRESS INC	CARY	JOURNALS DEPT, 2001 EVANS RD, CARY, NC 27513 USA	http://www.oxfordjournals.org	0004-8038		AUK	AUK	2013	OCT	130	4				666	676	11		274EM	CCC:000328588800011					2019-04-10J	Grarock, KLindenmayer, DBWood, JTTidemann, CR	Grarock, Kate; Lindenmayer, David B.; Wood, Jeffrey T.; Tidemann, Christopher R.		Does Human-Induced Habitat Modification Influence the Impact of Introduced Species? A Case Study on Cavity-Nesting by the Introduced Common Myna (Acridotheres tristis) and Two Australian Native Parrots	ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Competition, Exotic species, Indian myna, Hollow, Pest management, Sturnus tristis	SOUTHEASTERN AUSTRALIA, ARBOREAL MARSUPIALS, PSITTACULA-KRAMERI, CAPITAL-TERRITORY, VERTEBRATE FAUNA, ALIEN MAMMALS, TREE HOLLOWS, BIRDS, FORESTS, SITES	Introduced species pose a major threat to biodiversity across the globe. Understanding the impact of introduced species is critical for effective management. Many species around the world are reliant on tree cavities, and competition for these resources can be intense: threatening the survival of native species. Through the establishment of 225 nest boxes, we examined the relationship between tree density and the abundance and nesting success of three bird species in Canberra, Australia. The common myna (Acridotheres tristis) is an introduced species in Australia, and the crimson rosella (Platycercus elegans) and eastern rosella (Platycercus eximius) are native species. We then investigated the impact of common myna nest box occupation on crimson rosella and eastern rosella abundance. Tree density significantly influenced the abundance and cavity-nesting of all three species. Common myna abundance (birds per square kilometer) was greatest at low tree density sites (101.9 +/- A 22.4) and declined at medium (45.4 +/- A 10.1) and high (9.7 +/- A 3.6) tree density sites. The opposite pattern was observed for the crimson rosella, with greater abundance (birds per square kilometer) at high tree density sites (83.9 +/- A 9.3), declining over medium (61.6 +/- A 6.4) and low (31.4 +/- A 3.9) tree density sites. The eastern rosella was more abundant at medium tree density sites (48.6 +/- A 8.0 birds per square kilometer). Despite the strong influence of tree density, we found a significant negative relationship between common myna nest box occupancy and the abundance of the crimson rosella (F (1,13) = 7.548, P = 0.017) and eastern rosella (F (1,13) = 9.672, P < 0.001) at some sites. We also observed a slight increase in rosella nesting interruptions by the common myna at lower tree densities (high: 1.3 % +/- A 1.3, medium: 6.6 % +/- A 2.2, low: 12.7 % +/- A 6.2), although this increase was not statistically significant (F (2,40) = 2.435, P = 0.100). Our study provides the strongest evidence to date for the negative impact of the common myna on native bird abundance through cavity-nesting competition. However, due to the strong influence of habitat on species abundance and nesting, it is essential to investigate the impacts of introduced species in conjunction with habitat variation. We also suggest one component of introduced species management could include habitat restoration to reduce habitat suitability for introduced species.	[Grarock, K; Lindenmayer, DB; Wood, JT; Tidemann, CR] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Grarock, K] Univ Canberra, Invas Anim Cooperat Res Ctr, Canberra, ACT 2617, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB] Australian Res Council Ctr Excellence Environm De, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lindenmayer, DB] Natl Environm Res Program, Canberra, ACT, Australia	Grarock, K (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	kate.grarock@gmail.com; david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au; jeff.wood@anu.edu.au; chris.tidemann@anu.edu.au	Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088	2	75	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0364-152X		ENVIRON MANAGE	Environ. Manage.	2013	OCT	52	4				958	970	13		221CB	CCC:000324633900016	23716011				2019-04-10J	Greenberg, CHWaldrop, TATomcho, JPhillips, RJSimon, D	Greenberg, Cathryn H.; Waldrop, Thomas A.; Tomcho, Joseph; Phillips, Ross J.; Simon, Dean		Bird response to fire severity and repeated burning in upland hardwood forest	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Breeding birds, Burn severity, Fire surrogate, Fuel reduction, Prescribed fire, Repeated burn	EARLY SUCCESSIONAL HABITATS, FUEL REDUCTION TREATMENTS, APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS, NORTH-CAROLINA, SOUTHERN OHIO, CONSERVATION, USA, BIODIVERSITY, COMMUNITIES, DISTURBANCE	Prescribed burning is a common management tool for upland hardwood forests, with wildlife habitat improvement an often cited goal. Fire management for wildlife conservation requires understanding how species respond to burning at different frequencies, severities, and over time. In an earlier study, we experimentally assessed how breeding bird communities and species responded to fuel reduction treatments by mechanical understory reduction, low-severity prescribed fires, or mechanical understory reduction followed a year later by high-severity prescribed fires in upland hardwood forest. Here, we assess longer-term response to the initial mechanical treatment (M), and a second low-intensity burn in twice burned (B2) and mechanical + twice burned (MB2) treatments and controls (C). Initial (2003) higher dead fuel loadings and consequently high-severity fires in MB2 created open-canopy structure with abundant snags, resulting in much higher species richness and density of breeding birds compared to other treatments. Relative bird density and richness remained much higher in MB2 after a second burn, but few changes were evident that were not already apparent after one burn. The initial (2003) burn in B2 had cooler, low-severity fires that killed few trees. Delayed tree mortality occurred in both burn treatments after one burn, and continued in both after a second low-intensity burn. In B2, this resulted in gradual development of a "perforated," patchy canopy structure with more snags. Abundance of total birds and most species in B2 was similar to C, but several additional species associated with open-forest conditions occurred at low levels, increasing richness in B2. In both burn treatments, burning temporarily reduced habitat suitability for ground-nesting birds. Bird communities in M were similar to C, as shrubs recovered rapidly. Results indicate that one or two relatively low-intensity burns with patches of hotter fire may result in gradual, subtle changes to canopy cover and structure that may slightly increase bird species richness over time. In contrast, a single high-intensity, high severity fire can create young forest conditions and a heterogeneous canopy structure that can be maintained by repeated burning and increase breeding bird relative abundance and richness by attracting disturbance-adapted species while retaining most other forest species. Published by Elsevier B.V.	[Greenberg, CH] USDA Forest Serv, Southern Res Stn, Bent Creek Expt Forest, Asheville, NC 28806 USA; [Waldrop, TA; Phillips, RJ] USDA Forest Serv, Southern Res Stn, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Tomcho, J] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, Burnsville, NC 28714 USA; [Simon, D] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, Lawndale, NC 28090 USA	Greenberg, CH (reprint author), USDA Forest Serv, Southern Res Stn, Bent Creek Expt Forest, 1577 Brevard Rd, Asheville, NC 28806 USA.	kgreenberg@fs.fed.us; twaldrop@fs.fed.us; joseph.tomcho@ncwildlife.org; rjphillips@fs.fed.us; dean.simon@ncwildlife.org			1	35	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2013	SEP	304					80	88	9		217HQ	CCC:000324351000009		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Cahall, REHayes, JPBetts, MG	Cahall, Rebecca E.; Hayes, John P.; Betts, Matthew G.		Will they come? Long-term response by forest birds to experimental thinning supports the "Field of Dreams" hypothesis	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Birds, Douglas-fir, Forest management, Long-term research, Structure-based management, Thinning	DOUGLAS-FIR FORESTS, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, PACIFIC-NORTHWEST, SILVICULTURAL TREATMENTS, STRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT, HABITAT SELECTION, COASTAL FORESTS, WESTERN OREGON, COMMUNITIES, STANDS	Intensifying forest management practices via use of tree plantations represents a common response to rising global demand for wood and paper products. However, a large proportion of tree plantations, globally, exist in closed-canopy mid-seral stages, which are frequently associated with reduced biodiversity. In some regions, silvicultural techniques such as thinning have been used to accelerate the development of complex vertical structure and composition (e.g., shrubs, understory, midstory, large trees) in these plantations; these attributes are expected to constitute suitable habitat for species associated with particular forest structures. We report on the results of a 15-year randomized-block manipulative study based in Oregon, USA, designed to test the hypothesis that 'if you build it they will come' (i.e., the "Field of Dreams" hypothesis; the 'creation' of complex vertical structure in forests via thinning will result in colonization by bird species associated with these structures). We conducted point counts of forest birds 7 times each year in stands thinned at two different intensities and in unharvested controls. Responses to thinning by some bird species [e.g., hermit warbler (Setophaga occidentalis), Swainson's thrush (Catharus ustulatus) and Wilson's warbler (Cardellina pusilla)] changed from being negative in the short term (<6 years), to being positive over the longer term. However, some species were sensitive to thinning disturbance even after 15 years of recovery [e.g., Hutton's vireo (Vireo huttoni)]. Disturbance-associated species initially increased following thinning; but over the longer-term, detections of several of these species [American robin (Turdus migratorius) and Townsend's solitaire (Myadestes townsendi)] notably declined or ceased. Our findings indicate that results from short-term studies (<= 6 years) cannot be used to predict the longer-term response of birds to forest management treatments, particularly for species of birds whose response to thinning over time was non-linear. Further, none of the management prescriptions tested were alone sufficient to maintain long-term occupancy for all of the species in the study. Implementing thinning at intervals across landscape scales to develop different seral stages and stand-structures, while also maintaining unthinned areas for species negatively impacted by thinning, will likely have the greatest positive impact on beta diversity of birds in managed plantation landscapes. (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier B.V.	[Cahall, RE; Betts, MG] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Hayes, JP] Univ Florida, Dept Wildlife Ecol & Conservat, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA	Betts, MG (reprint author), Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, 321 Richardson Hall, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.	matthew.betts@oregonstate.edu	Hayes, John/C-7967-2016	Hayes, John/0000-0002-6462-6876	1	50	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2013	SEP	304					137	149	13		217HQ	CCC:000324351000015					2019-04-10J	White, AMZipkin, EFManley, PNSchlesinger, MD	White, Angela M.; Zipkin, Elise F.; Manley, Patricia N.; Schlesinger, Matthew D.		Simulating avian species and foraging group responses to fuel reduction treatments in coniferous forests	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biodiversity, Forest management, Functional group, Hierarchical modeling, Imperfect detection, Occurrence modeling	LAKE TAHOE BASIN, BIRD COMMUNITIES, SIERRA-NEVADA, UNITED-STATES, TERRESTRIAL ECOSYSTEMS, RESTORATION TREATMENTS, ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS, HABITAT HETEROGENEITY, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, BIODIVERSITY LOSS	Over a century of fire suppression activities have altered the structure and composition of mixed conifer forests throughout the western United States. In the absence of fire, fuels have accumulated in these forests causing concerns over the potential for catastrophic wildfires. Fuel reduction treatments are being used on federal and state lands to reduce the threat of wildfire by mechanically removing biomass. Although these treatments result in a reduction in fire hazard, their impact on wildlife is less clear. We use a multi-species occupancy modeling approach to build habitat-suitability models for 46 upland forest birds found in the Lake Tahoe Basin in the Sierra Nevada based on forest structure and abiotic variables. Using a Bayesian hierarchical framework, we predict species-specific and community-level responses to changes in forest structure and make inferences about responses of important avian foraging guilds. Disparities within and among foraging group responses to canopy cover, tree size and shrub cover emphasized the complexities in managing forests to meet biodiversity goals. Based on our species-specific model results, we predicted changes in species richness and community similarity under forest prescriptions representing three management practices: no active management, a typical fuel reduction treatment that emphasizes spacing between trees, and a thinning prescription that creates structural heterogeneity. Simulated changes to structural components of the forest analogous to management practices to reduce fuel loads clearly affected foraging groups differentially despite variability in responses within guilds. Although species richness was predicted to decrease slightly under both simulated fuels reduction treatments, the prescription that incorporated structural heterogeneity retained marginally higher species richness. The composition of communities supported by different management alternatives was influenced by urbanization and management practice, emphasizing the importance of creating heterogeneity at the landscape scale. Published by Elsevier B.V.	[White, AM; Schlesinger, MD] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Conservat Biodivers Grp, Davis, CA 95618 USA; [Zipkin, EF] USGS Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Laurel, MD 20708 USA; [Zipkin, EF] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Manley, PN] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Conservat Biodivers Grp, Placerville, CA 95677 USA; [Schlesinger, MD] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Environm Sci & Policy, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Schlesinger, MD] Univ Calif Davis, Grad Grp Ecol, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Schlesinger, MD] New York Nat Heritage Program, Albany, NY 12233 USA	White, AM (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Conservat Biodivers Grp, 1731 Res Pk Dr, Davis, CA 95618 USA.	angelawhite@fs.fed.us; ezipkin@usgs.gov; pmanley@fs.fed.us; schlesinger@nynhp.org	White, Angela/N-7088-2013	White, Angela/0000-0001-7499-7390	3	48	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2013	SEP	304					261	274	14		217HQ	CCC:000324351000027		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Torres-Moye, GEdwards, MSMontano-Moctezuma, CG	Torres-Moye, Guillermo; Edwards, Matthew S.; Gabriela Montano-Moctezuma, Cira		Benthic community structure in kelp forests from the Southern California Bight	CIENCIAS MARINAS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AQUATIC SCIENCES	Marine & Freshwater Biology	kelp forests, community structure, habitat complexity, benthos, Southern California Bight region	GIANT-KELP, BAJA-CALIFORNIA, HABITAT HETEROGENEITY, SPATIAL-PATTERNS, DISTURBANCE, DIVERSITY, PACIFIC, ECOLOGY, MACROCYSTIS, ECOSYSTEMS	The United States and Mexico share the Southern California Bight (SCB) ecosystem in the Northeast Pacific Ocean where marine wildlife and habitats historically have been disturbed by human activities. Within this ecosystem, forests of the giant kelp Macrocystis pyrifera are critical habitats that sustain diverse biological assemblages and important fishery species. We studied patterns of temporal and spatial variability within the benthic communities of five transboundary kelp forests in California (USA) and Baja California (Mexico) over a four-year period that included a moderate El Nino event. While the benthic marine communities shared some species, they varied significantly in community structure from each other, and the degree of dissimilarity was not related to the geographic distances among the studied habitats. Rather, species richness was significantly related to local substratum rugosity, suggesting it could be used as a proxy of relative benthic biological diversity. Temporal changes in the benthic assemblages were not consistent across all forests, and contrary to observations made during previous El Nino events in the SCB, the benthic communities did not change significantly following the 2009-2010 El Nino. Such an unexpected community response may be explained by the fact that the 2009-2010 El Nino was linked to the Modoki phenomenon, where warm sea surface temperature is focused in the central equatorial Pacific and not in the eastern Pacific Ocean. We propose that long-term conservation efforts should incorporate this ecological knowledge to support science-based decisions, binational coordination of policies, and coherent management practices including the design of transboundary conservation networks as spatial management tools for the protection, conservation, and/or restoration of the SCB ecosystem.	[Torres-Moye, G] Univ Autonoma Baja California, Fac Ciencias Marinas, Ensenada 22800, Baja California, Mexico; [Torres-Moye, G; Edwards, MS] San Diego State Univ, Dept Biol, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Montano-Moctezuma, CG] Univ Autonoma Baja California, Inst Invest Oceanol, Ensenada 22800, Baja California, Mexico	Torres-Moye, G (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Baja California, Fac Ciencias Marinas, Carretera Transpeninsular Ensenada Tijuana 3917, Ensenada 22800, Baja California, Mexico.	gtorres@uabc.edu.mx			1	41	INST INVESTIGACIONES OCEANOLOGICAS, U A B C	BAJA CALIFORNIA	APARTADO POSTAL 423, ENSENADA, BAJA CALIFORNIA 22800, MEXICO	http://www.ens.uabc.mx/110/110.htm	0185-3880		CIENC MAR	Ceinc. Mar.	2013	SEP	39	3				239	252	14		AK6OD	CCC:000338546100001		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	George, ADO'Connell, TJHickman, KRLeslie, DM	George, Andrew D.; O'Connell, Timothy J.; Hickman, Karen R.; Leslie, David M., Jr.		FOOD AVAILABILITY IN EXOTIC GRASSLANDS: A POTENTIAL MECHANISM FOR DEPAUPERATE BREEDING ASSEMBLAGES	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	arthropod biomass, Bothriochloa ischaemum, Conservation Reserve Program, grassland birds, invasive species, mixed-grass prairie, Old World bluestem	CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM, MIDWESTERN COAL-MINES, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, BIRD COMMUNITIES, VEGETATION, QUALITY, FIELDS	We investigated the influence of Old World bluestem (Bothriochloa ischaemum; OWB) monocultures on grassland bird abundance through analysis of vegetation structure and food availability. We compared breeding bird density, vegetation structure and composition, and arthropod biomass between six native grass and six OWB fields in the southern Great Plains, The OWB fields supported 1.70 +/- 0.27 (mean +/- SE) Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) per ha compared to 0.95 +/- 0.25 in native grass fields, but total species richness was greater in native grass fields (40 versus 28 species). Density of some bird species was correlated with vegetation structure regardless of field type, suggesting that management practices may be more influential than plant species composition. Mean arthropod biomass was 3.39X greater in native grass fields than in OWB monocultures. Native grass fields provided habitat for a larger complement of birds than did OWB monocultures, and reduced food availability in OWB fields suggests a mechanism for that difference.	[George, AD; O'Connell, TJ; Hickman, KR] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Leslie, DM] Oklahoma State Univ, Oklahoma Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, US Geol Survey, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA	George, AD (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Div Biol Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	adgeorge@mail.missouri.edu	O'Connell, Timothy/A-2908-2011	O'Connell, Timothy/0000-0001-8215-2670	2	29	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2013	SEP	125	3				526	533	8	10.1676/13-003.1	222GH	CCC:000324718700008					2019-04-10J	Zangari, LFerraguti, MLuiselli, LBattisti, CBologna, MA	Zangari, Laura; Ferraguti, Martina; Luiselli, Luca; Battisti, Corrado; Bologna, Marco A.		COMPARING PATTERNS IN ABUNDANCE AND DIVERSITY OF HOLE-NESTING BIRDS IN MEDITERRANEAN HABITATS	REVUE D ECOLOGIE-LA TERRE ET LA VIE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		FOREST HEALTH, TREE CAVITIES, SMALL WOODS, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPE, WOODPECKERS, COMMUNITIES, PASSERINES, INDICATORS, NUMBER	Hole-nesting birds include species highly dependent on old trees or dead wood for nesting, roosting, breeding and feeding. In this study we characterize the assemblages of these species occurring in five different habitat types located in a heterogeneous Mediterranean landscape. We used the point count method. In all habitat types, tits (Parus major and Cyanistes caeruleus) were the most abundant species, except in beech forests, where Sitta europaea showed the highest mean abundance. Hole nesting bird assemblages increase in abundance, richness and diversity, with significant changes from termophilic and sclcrophyllous forests (Holm-oak and Cork-oak) to temperate and mesophilic forests (chestnut, Turkey oak and Beech). This pattern reflects the progressive change in vegetation type both due to structure and species composition, ultimately due to progressive change in altitude and local climate. In particular, data at singles species level corroborate that the presence of mature and dead trees (i.e., with high mean diameter) may explain the abundance of Sitta europaea, Picus viridis and Certhia brachydactyla. Our dataset highlights that, for the hole-nesting birds, mesophilous beech and oak Mediterranean forests of biogeographic and conservation concern, represent suitable habitat types for these specialized species.	[Zangari, L; Ferraguti, M; Bologna, MA] Univ Roma Tre, Dipartimento Biol Ambientale, I-00146 Rome, Italy; [Luiselli, L] Ctr Environm Studies Demetra Srl, I-00198 Rome, Italy; [Battisti, C] Environm Serv Protected Areas Reg Parks, I-00159 Rome, Italy	Zangari, L (reprint author), Univ Roma Tre, Dipartimento Biol Ambientale, Viale Marconi 446, I-00146 Rome, Italy.	zangari.laura@gmail.com; lucamlu@tin.it; c.battisti@provincia.roma.it; bologna@uniroma3.it	Ferraguti, Martina/C-6109-2015	Ferraguti, Martina/0000-0001-7481-4355	1	7	SOC NATL PROTECTION NATURE ACCLIMATATION FRANCE	PARIS 5	57 RUE CUVIER, 75005 PARIS 5, FRANCE		0249-7395		REV ECOL-TERRE VIE	Rev. Ecol.-Terre Vie	2013	SEP-DEC	68	3-4				267	274	8		AT8OF	CCC:000345191600004					2019-04-10J	Johansson, THjalten, Jde Jong, Jvon Stedingk, H	Johansson, Therese; Hjalten, Joakim; de Jong, Johnny; von Stedingk, Henrik		Environmental considerations from legislation and certification in managed forest stands: A review of their importance for biodiversity	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Environmental consideration, Forest management, Boreal forest, Thresholds, Biodiversity conservation, Sweden	WOODLAND KEY HABITATS, COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, ASPEN POPULUS-TREMULA, GROUND BEETLES COLEOPTERA, BREEDING BIRD COMMUNITIES, BOREAL SPRUCE FORESTS, GREEN-TREE RETENTION, WOODPECKER DENDROCOPOS-LEUCOTOS, TIT AEGITHALOS-CAUDATUS, RED-LISTED BRYOPHYTES	Negative impacts of forestry on biodiversity have been addressed through environmental considerations held within legislation and various forest certification protocols. We used Sweden as a case study where a long history of forestry aiming at sustained yield of wood fiber has resulted in landscapes with low quantities of old growth structures e.g. dead wood and old forest, but where environmental considerations have been implemented during the last two decades. We reviewed the scientific literature for studies evaluating the environmental considerations included in the Swedish Forestry Act and FSC, compared individual metrics and benchmarks, identified thresholds as well as identified specific gaps missing from current regulations (missing factors/areas of improvement). All environmental considerations listed in the Swedish Forestry Act were found to be relevant for conservation. The strongest scientific support for their importance in maintaining biodiversity in managed landscapes was found for dead wood, tree retention and habitats for sensitive species, including edge zones and woodland key habitats. However, suggested levels fall below identified thresholds. Retention of small habitat patches can provide a lifeboat function for some red-listed species, but the long term survival of these populations is uncertain. Tree species composition was also found be important, and in the boreal region the proportion of deciduous trees is a key factor. For some environmental considerations, there is too limited information from the scientific literature to evaluate their importance in relation to the current levels, e.g. consequences of clear-cut size and shape, and forest roads. Similarly, damage to soil and water affect biodiversity through drainage, leakage and sedimentation, but the effects vary considerably and are often diffuse. There is a need to better adjust the levels of environmental considerations above thresholds from empirical studies. However, it will be impossible within current regulatory framework to maintain all species in all landscapes. Therefore, the allocation of environmental consideration among stands, landscapes and regions need to be considered. Evenly dispersed retention might always stay below suggested thresholds with limited contribution to ecologically sustainable forest ecosystems. More flexibility, where the sum of conservation measures in the landscape as opposed to measures in individual stands are considered, would result in better conservation strategies. This would mean that particular landscapes could be more intensively managed and in other more focus on biodiversity conservation could be taken. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Johansson, T; Hjalten, J] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, S-90183 Umea, Sweden; [de Jong, J] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, CBM, Uppsala, Sweden; [von Stedingk, H] FSC Sweden, Uppsala, Sweden	Johansson, T (reprint author), Swedish Univ Agr Sci, S-90183 Umea, Sweden.	therese.johansson@slu.se		Johansson, Therese/0000-0002-5864-2669	10	212	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2013	SEP	303					98	112	15		177WH	CCC:000321405600011					2019-04-10J	Coote, LDietzsch, ACWilson, MWGraham, CTFuller, LWalsh, ATIrwin, SKelly, DLMitchell, FJGKelly, TCO'Halloran, J	Coote, Linda; Dietzsch, Anke C.; Wilson, Mark W.; Graham, Conor T.; Fuller, Lauren; Walsh, Aisling T.; Irwin, Sandra; Kelly, Daniel L.; Mitchell, Fraser J. G.; Kelly, Thomas C.; O'Halloran, John		Testing indicators of biodiversity for plantation forests	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Indicator, Biodiversity, Forest plantation, Canopy cover, Sustainable Forest Management	GROUND FLORA, BIRD COMMUNITIES, WOODY DEBRIS, DEAD WOOD, DIVERSITY, PATTERNS, BRYOPHYTES, BRITAIN, IMPACT, GROWTH	In many parts of the world, plantations make up a considerable proportion of the total forest area. In such regions, the identification of high biodiversity value stands and of management practices to enhance biodiversity is essential if the goals of Sustainable Forest Management are to be achieved. Since complete biodiversity assessments are rarely possible, efforts have been increasingly focussed on the use of indicators. Of particular interest are indicators applicable to individual stands that require no specialist taxonomic or technical knowledge to assess. Candidate biodiversity indicators had been identified in a previous study using data from Irish Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) and ash (Fraxinus excelsior) plantations but had yet to be tested on independent data. In the present study, the provisional indicators for vascular plant, bryophyte, spider and bird diversity were tested on data from Irish Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), oak (Quercus petraea/Quercus robur), Sitka spruce and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) plantations. Conifer canopy cover was confirmed as an important biodiversity indicator, due to its influence on below-canopy microclimatic and structural conditions. Bryophyte species richness was higher in relatively high canopy cover plantations on poorly drained soils, while bird species richness was higher in more open plantations with high shrub cover. Coarse woody debris was an important substrate for forest-associated bryophytes, with higher species richness at higher volumes of deadwood. Both proximity to old woodland and stand age were confirmed as positive indicators for forest-associated vascular plants. This is related to dispersal limitation in these species, with nearby woodlands acting as important seed sources and colonisation increasing with time. Stand age was also confirmed as a positive indicator for forest-associated spiders and is related to the development of suitable habitat as the plantation matures. All of the confirmed indicators can be assessed without need for specialist knowledge, are ecologically meaningful and applicable to a range of forests managed under a clearfelling system. They can be used to assess the potential value of stands for the taxonomic groups to which they apply, as well as giving insights into management practices to enhance diversity in these groups. (c) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Coote, L; Dietzsch, AC; Walsh, AT; Kelly, DL; Mitchell, FJG] Trinity Coll Dublin, Dept Bot, Sch Nat Sci, Dublin 2, Ireland; [Coote, L; Dietzsch, AC; Walsh, AT; Kelly, DL; Mitchell, FJG] Trinity Coll Dublin, Trinity Ctr Biodivers Res, Dublin 2, Ireland; [Wilson, MW; Graham, CT; Fuller, L; Irwin, S; Kelly, TC; O'Halloran, J] Natl Univ Ireland Univ Coll Cork, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Cork, Ireland	Coote, L (reprint author), Trinity Coll Dublin, Dept Bot, Sch Nat Sci, Dublin 2, Ireland.	cootel@tcd.ie	Mitchell, Fraser/L-9292-2014; O'Halloran, John/A-2379-2014; Dietzsch, Anke/E-8730-2010; Mitchell, Fraser/; Fuller, Lauren/	O'Halloran, John/0000-0002-8150-7510; Dietzsch, Anke/0000-0003-2075-7951; Mitchell, Fraser/0000-0002-9857-5632; Fuller, Lauren/0000-0002-1672-0817	2	149	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2013	SEP	32					107	115	9		157JH	CCC:000319891900014					2019-04-10J	Kalies, ELRosenstock, SS	Kalies, Elizabeth L.; Rosenstock, Steven S.		Stand Structure and Breeding Birds: Implications for Restoring Ponderosa Pine Forests	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Arizona, avian community, diameter cap, forest management, habitat relationships, occupancy modeling, Pinus ponderosa, ponderosa pine	ESTIMATING SITE OCCUPANCY, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, NORTHERN ARIZONA, FUEL-REDUCTION, UNITED-STATES, COMMUNITY COMPOSITION, SPECIES RICHNESS, PRESCRIBED FIRE, GAMBEL OAK, CONSERVATION	Fire-adapted forests in the western United States have dramatically departed from the natural or evolutionary environment over the past century because of fire suppression, logging, grazing, and other management practices. In particular, most southwestern ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests are characterized by dense stands of small-diameter trees that are susceptible to stand-replacing crown fires and ensuing damage to watersheds, wildlife habitat, and communities at the wildland-urban interface. Restoration treatments using mechanical thinning and prescribed fire have become the dominant management paradigm in this forest type, with landscape-scale projects being implemented over the next 20 years. Although many studies have examined wildlife responses to restoration treatments, single-species information is difficult for managers to synthesize and incorporate into management decisions made at large scales. Our goal was to investigate responses of breeding birds in ponderosa pine forests to forest stand characteristics modified by restoration treatments. We sampled birds in 23 stands for 3 years in northern Arizona, and used multi-season and multi-species occupancy models to determine relationships between avian occupancy and stand attributes affected by treatment. Increasing occupancy rates and species richness were associated with decreasing canopy cover, increasing density of mature trees, and increasing density of snags. Occupancy rates and species richness were negatively associated with quadratic mean diameter, medium-sized trees, and downed woody material. Associations of the avian community and individual species with herbaceous cover and tree clumping were less consistent. Our results support the implementation of forest restoration treatments for restoring avian community occupancy in ponderosa pine forests, and emulating the evolutionary environment is likely the best approach. We recommend reducing canopy cover via thinning, and retaining trees >45.7cm diameter at breast height and snags. A commonly-proposed diameter cap for retaining large trees after thinning (40.6cmdbh) seems unlikely to benefit nesting passerines, as resulting tree densities would remain too large. We recommend occupancy modeling as an efficient method for assessing wildlife-habitat relationships at large scales. (c) 2013 The Wildlife Society.	[Kalies, EL] No Arizona Univ, Ecol Restorat Inst, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Rosenstock, SS] Arizona Game & Fish Dept, Phoenix, AZ 85086 USA	Kalies, EL (reprint author), No Arizona Univ, Ecol Restorat Inst, POB 15017, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.	ekalies@gmail.com			5	52	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2013	AUG	77	6				1157	1165	9		187NC	CCC:000322124800008					2019-04-10J	Adams, HLBurger, LWRiffell, S	Adams, Heidi L.; Burger, L. Wes, Jr.; Riffell, Sam		Disturbance and Landscape Effects on Avian Nests in Agricultural Conservation Buffers	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	conservation buffers, disturbance, grassland birds, landscape composition, nest density, nest survival	TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, RESERVE PROGRAM, NORTHERN BOBWHITE, HABITAT QUALITY, GRASSLAND BIRDS, PRESCRIBED FIRE, UNITED-STATES, SURVIVAL, MANAGEMENT, VEGETATION	We studied the effects of periodic disturbance (prescribed burning and light disking) and landscape composition on nest density and success for grassland birds in agricultural conservation buffers in southeastern United States agroecosystems. During the 2007-2009 breeding seasons, we located 387 nests in buffers of a northeast Mississippi agroecosystem. Dickcissel (Spiza americana) and red-winged blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) were the most common nesting species. Time since disturbance influenced nest densities of dickcissels and red-winged blackbirds; densities were lesser during the first growing season post-disturbance but increased during the second growing season post-burn. Nest densities for both species were least in buffers adjacent to woodland. Inclusion of disturbance did not improve models of dickcissel and red-winged blackbird nest survival, suggesting that disturbance influenced nesting density, but not nesting outcomes. Amount of grassland surrounding dickcissel nests was positively associated with nest survival, but confidence intervals included zero indicating effects were not strong. Although distance to nearest crop or developed edge were included in competing models of red-winged blackbird nest survival, their effects were negligible. Agricultural conservation buffers will best serve breeding grassland bird populations if they are established in areas with minimal woodland cover, maximize total grassland in the landscape, and are maintained with prescribed burning. These results will help characterize the contribution of agricultural conservation buffers in agroecosystems of the southeastern United States. (c) 2013 The Wildlife Society.	[Adams, HL; Burger, LW; Riffell, S] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Aquaculture, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA	Adams, HL (reprint author), Mississippi State Univ, Dept Wildlife Fisheries & Aquaculture, Box 9690, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA.	adamsh@uamont.edu		Burger, Jr., L. Wes/0000-0002-1053-1150	2	39	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2013	AUG	77	6				1213	1220	8		187NC	CCC:000322124800014					2019-04-10J	Jimenez, JEArriagada, AMFonturbel, FECamus, PAAvila-Thieme, MI	Jimenez, Jaime E.; Arriagada, Aldo M.; Fonturbel, Francisco E.; Camus, Patricio A.; Avila-Thieme, M. Isidora		Effects of exotic fish farms on bird communities in lake and marine ecosystems	NATURWISSENSCHAFTEN			English	Article	Life Sciences (LS), Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences (PCES)	MULTIDISCIPLINARY, MULTIDISCIPLINARY	Science & Technology - Other Topics	Aquaculture, Aquatic birds, Generalist species, Southern Chile, Trophic guild	SOUTHERN CHILE, MANAGEMENT-PRACTICES, SPECIES RICHNESS, HERON PREDATION, WILD FISH, SEA LICE, IMPACTS, SALMON, ASSEMBLAGE, ORDINATION	Salmon farming is a widespread activity around the world, also known to promote diverse environmental effects on aquatic ecosystems. However, information regarding the impact of salmon farming on bird assemblages is notably scarce. We hypothesize that salmon farming, by providing food subsidies and physical structures to birds, will change their local community structure. To test this hypothesis, we conducted a seasonal monitoring of bird richness, abundance, and composition at paired salmon pen and control plots in two marine and two lake sites in southern Chile, from fall 2002 to summer 2004. Overall, salmon farming had no significant effects on species richness, but bird abundance was significantly and noticeably higher in salmon pens than in controls. Such aggregation was mainly accounted for by the trophic guilds of omnivores, diving piscivores, carrion eaters, and perching piscivores, but not by invertebrate feeders, herbivores, and surface feeders. Species composition was also significantly and persistently different between salmon pens and controls within each lake or marine locality. The patterns described above remained consistent across environment types and seasons indicating that salmon farming is changing the community structure of birds in both lake and marine habitats by promoting functional and aggregation responses, particularly by favoring species with broader niches. Such local patterns may thus anticipate potential threats from the ongoing expansion of the salmon industry to neighboring areas in Chile, resulting in regional changes of bird communities, toward a less diverse one and dominated by opportunistic, common, and generalist species such as gulls, vultures, and cormorants.	[Jimenez, JE] Univ N Texas, Dept Biol, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Jimenez, JE] Univ N Texas, Dept Philosophy & Relig Studies, Subantarctic Biocultural Conservat Program, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Arriagada, AM] Univ Lagos, Programa IBAM, Osorno, Chile; [Fonturbel, FE] Univ Chile, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ciencias Ecol, Santiago 7800024, Chile; [Camus, PA; Avila-Thieme, MI] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Concepcion, Chile; [Jimenez, JE] Univ Magallanes, Puerto Williams, Chile	Fonturbel, FE (reprint author), Univ Chile, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ciencias Ecol, Las Palmeras 3425, Santiago 7800024, Chile.	jaime.jimenez@unt.edu; phalacrocorax@gmail.com; fonturbel@gmail.com; pcamus@ucsc.cl; miavila@bmciencias.ucsc.cl	Fonturbel, Francisco/C-7756-2009	Fonturbel, Francisco/0000-0001-8585-2816	2	65	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0028-1042		NATURWISSENSCHAFTEN	Naturwissenschaften	2013	AUG	100	8				779	787	9		183AY	CCC:000321787200008	23817947				2019-04-10J	Boyes, RSPerrin, MR	Boyes, Rutledge S.; Perrin, Michael R.		Access to cryptic arthropod larvae supports the atypical winter breeding seasonality of Meyer's Parrot (Poicephalus meyeri) throughout the African subtropics	JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	African parrots, Okavango Delta, Breeding biology, Insectivory, Dietary switch	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, OKAVANGO DELTA, FEEDING ECOLOGY, RUPPELLS PARROT, SEED PREDATION, EGG-PRODUCTION, SOUTH-AFRICA, CLUTCH SIZE, CAPE PARROT, LIFE-CYCLE	Meyer's Parrot Poicephalus meyeri has the widest distributional range of any African parrot. There are six subspecies distributed throughout the African subtropics, all of which manage to breed successfully during the winter dry season when few other cavity-nesting birds are actively nesting. In 2004, we recorded Meyer's Parrots feeding on four cryptic arthropod larvae incubating inside fruits and pods in their seasonal diet. All of these were previously unknown in the diet of African parrots. Nesting females and chicks were fed regurgitate almost exclusively comprising these arthropod larvae for the first 10 weeks after nest occupation. In 2007, we demonstrated that Meyer's Parrots actively search for these protein-rich arthropod larvae and synchronized their breeding effort within our study area to coincide their hatching period with the period of highest relative abundance of these larvae, resulting in a breeding synchrony index value of 79.3 % between females in the population. In 2009, we recorded the consumption of similar arthropod larvae parasitizing similar tree species in northern Zambia and two locations in Tanzania, thus confirming this behaviour throughout their distributional range. Similar behaviour is expected in their closest congeners, the Brown-headed Parrot P. cryptoxanthus and Ruppell's Parrot P. rueppellii. Poor land management practices (e.g. deforestation and frequent fires) most likely influence the abundance of these cryptic arthropod larvae and thus the breeding success of Meyer's Parrot at population level.	[Boyes, RS] Univ Cape Town, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, Dept Zool, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Perrin, MR] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Biol & Conservat Sci, Res Ctr African Parrot Conservat, ZA-3209 Scottsville, Kwazulu Natal, South Africa	Boyes, RS (reprint author), Univ Cape Town, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, Dept Zool, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa.	boyes@africaskyblue.org			0	11	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0021-8375		J ORNITHOL	J. Ornithol.	2013	JUL	154	3				849	861	13		211SK	CCC:000323930500024					2019-04-10J	Mestre, LAMCochrane, MABarlow, J	Mestre, Luiz A. M.; Cochrane, Mark A.; Barlow, Jos		Long-term Changes in Bird Communities after Wildfires in the Central Brazilian Amazon	BIOTROPICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Amazonia, avifauna, Brazil, fires, long-term response	ESTIMATING SITE OCCUPANCY, TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, CLIMATE-CHANGE, INSECTIVOROUS BIRDS, RECURRENT WILDFIRES, UNDERSTOREY BIRDS, GROUND FIRES, HABITAT, RESPONSES, FRAGMENTS	We examined long-term responses of an Amazonian bird assemblage to wildfire disturbance, investigating how understory birds reacted to forest regeneration 1, 3, and 10years after a widespread fire event. The bird community was sampled along the Arapiuns and Maro river catchments in central Brazilian Amazonia. Sampling took place in 1998, 2000, and 2008 using mist-nets in eight plots (four burned, four unburned sites). Species richness did not change significantly in unburned sites. In burned sites, however, we found significantly lower richness in 1998, higher richness in 2000, and similar richness in 2008. Multi-dimensional scaling ordination showed consistent differences in bird communities both within burned sites sampled in different sampling years, and between burned and unburned sites in all years. Of the 30 most abundant species, 12 had not recovered 10years after the fires, including habitat specialists such as mixed flocks specialists and ant-followers. Fire-disturbance favored three species (two hummingbirds and a manakin) in the short term only. All other species were either favored throughout the study (seven species of omnivores and small insectivores) or did not show a clear response (eight species). In burned sites, we also found significantly lower abundance of species sensitive to disturbances and habitat specialists over the entire study period. Although the bird community seems to be recovering in terms of richness, the overall community composition and abundance of some species in post-burned and unburned sites remain very different, and have not recovered after 10years of forest regeneration.	[Mestre, LAM] Univ Fed Parana, BR-85950000 Palotina, Parana, Brazil; [Mestre, LAM; Cochrane, MA] S Dakota State Univ, Geog Informat Sci Ctr Excellence, Brookings, SD 57007 USA; [Barlow, J] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster Environm Ctr, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, England	Mestre, LAM (reprint author), Univ Fed Parana, Rua Pioneiro 2153, BR-85950000 Palotina, Parana, Brazil.	luiz.mestre@ufpr.br	Barlow, Jos/E-7861-2014; Cochrane, Mark/A-1735-2018	Cochrane, Mark/0000-0002-4573-568X	1	52	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0006-3606		BIOTROPICA	Biotropica	2013	JUL	45	4				480	488	9		175DQ	CCC:000321210900010					2019-04-10J	Ding, ZFFeeley, KJWang, YPPakeman, RJDing, P	Ding, Zhifeng; Feeley, Kenneth J.; Wang, Yanping; Pakeman, Robin J.; Ding, Ping		Patterns of bird functional diversity on land-bridge island fragments	JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bird community, functional divergence, functional evenness, functional richness, habitat filtering, land-bridge islands, Thousand Island Lake	HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, LIMITING SIMILARITY, COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, USE INTENSIFICATION, NULL MODELS, AREA, CONSERVATION, REDUNDANCY, FRAMEWORK, RESPONSES	The loss of species diversity due to habitat fragmentation has been extensively studied. In contrast, the impacts of habitat fragmentation on functional diversity remains relatively poorly understood. We conducted bird functional diversity studies on a set of 41 recently isolated land-bridge islands in the Thousand Island Lake, China. We analysed differences in bird species richness and a recently developed suite of complementary functional diversity indices (FRic, volume of functional space occupied; FEve, evenness of abundance distribution in the functional trait space; FDiv, divergence in the distribution of abundance in the trait volume) across different gradients (island area and isolation). We found no correlations between FRic and FEve or FEve and FDiv, but negative correlations between FRic and FDiv. As predicted, island area accounted for most of the variation in bird species richness, whereas isolation explained most of the variation in species evenness (decreasing species evenness with increasing isolation). Functional diversity appears to be more strongly influenced by habitat filtering as opposed to limiting similarity. More specifically, across all islands, both FRic and FEve were significantly lower than expected for randomly assembled communities, but FDiv showed no clear patterns. FRic increased with island area, FEve decreased with island area and FDiv showed no clear patterns. Our finding that FEve decreases with island area at TIL may indicate low functional stability on such islands, and as such large islands and habitat patches may deserve extra attention and/or protection. These results help to demonstrate the importance of considering the effects of fragmentation on functional diversity in habitat management and reserve design plans.	[Ding, ZF; Wang, YP; Ding, P] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Life Sci, Minist Educ, Key Lab Conservat Biol Endangered Wildlife, Hangzhou 310003, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Feeley, KJ] Florida Int Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Feeley, KJ] Fairchild Trop Bot Garden, Ctr Trop Plant Conservat, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Pakeman, RJ] James Hutton Inst, Aberdeen AB15 8QH, Scotland	Ding, P (reprint author), Zhejiang Univ, Coll Life Sci, Minist Educ, Key Lab Conservat Biol Endangered Wildlife, Hangzhou 310003, Zhejiang, Peoples R China.	dingping@zju.edu.cn	Ding, Ping/H-1817-2015; Pakeman, Robin/P-7338-2015; Ding, Zhifeng/L-1698-2013; Feeley, Kenneth/A-7631-2009; Ding, Zhifeng/	Pakeman, Robin/0000-0001-6248-4133; Ding, Zhifeng/0000-0001-6631-5046	1	116	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8790		J ANIM ECOL	J. Anim. Ecol.	2013	JUL	82	4				781	790	10		164DI	CCC:000320388700007	23506201				2019-04-10J	Fajmonova, ZZeleny, DSyrovatka, VVoncina, GHajek, M	Fajmonova, Zuzana; Zeleny, David; Syrovatka, Vit; Voncina, Grzegorz; Hajek, Michal		Distribution of habitat specialists in semi-natural grasslands	JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Community specificity, Habitat history, Habitat specialist, Hay meadow, Nutrient availability, Pasture, Vegetation, West Carpathians	PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, COOCCURRENCE BASED ASSESSMENT, VEGETATION-PLOT DATA, CALCAREOUS GRASSLANDS, ECOLOGICAL SPECIALIZATION, ENVIRONMENTAL GRADIENTS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, WEST CARPATHIANS, NICHE WIDTH, DIVERSITY	Questions To what extent do semi-natural grasslands differ in community specificity (i.e. the representation of habitat specialists in a community)? Does the community specificity coincide with evolutionary history and nutrient availability of the habitats? Location West Carpathian semi-natural grasslands (Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland). Methods Habitat specificity of individual plant species was derived from species co-occurrence patterns using the Czech and Slovak vegetation databases (48240 non-forest vegetation plots). The vegetation data set, i.e. semi-natural grasslands in West Carpathians, was classified into different plant communities using modified twinspan. The communities were split according to geographic position, in either Outer or Inner West Carpathians, and analysed separately. Values of community specificity for particular plant communities were compared with expectations generated by null models. The species habitat specificity was correlated to species Ellenberg indicator values for nutrients. Results Several plant communities have higher representation of habitat specialists than expected by chance, mainly semi-dry grasslands in the Outer West Carpathians, and calcareous fens and higher-altitude meadows in the Inner West Carpathians. Habitats that have occurred in the region since the early postglacial period are rich in habitat-specialized grassland species. Habitat specialists tend to occur in nutrient-poor habitats and generalists in nutrient-rich habitats. Nevertheless, some communities on productive habitats and with a relatively short history also show high level of community specificity. Conclusions Community specificity can be a useful parameter to describe the origin and determinants of semi-natural grassland biodiversity. Although the habitat persistence at the Holocene scale and nutrient availability are important factors underlying specialist occurrence, their distribution is probably also controlled by a complex set of interacting factors including, e.g. recent management practices.	[Fajmonova, Z; Zeleny, D; Syrovatka, V; Hajek, M] Masaryk Univ, Dept Bot & Zool, CZ-61137 Brno, Czech Republic; [Fajmonova, Z; Hajek, M] Acad Sci Czech Republic, Inst Bot, Dept Vegetat Ecol, CZ-60200 Brno, Czech Republic; [Voncina, G] Pieniny Natl Pk, PL-34450 Kroscienko Nad Dunajcem, Poland	Fajmonova, Z (reprint author), Masaryk Univ, Dept Bot & Zool, Kotlarska 2, CZ-61137 Brno, Czech Republic.	zuzkaroz@sci.muni.cz; zeleny@sci.muni.cz; syrovat@sci.muni.cz; gvoncina@poczta.onet.pl; hajek@sci.muni.cz	Zeleny, David/A-2655-2010; Hajek, Michal/H-1648-2014	Zeleny, David/0000-0001-5157-044X; Hajek, Michal/0000-0002-5201-2682	1	68	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1100-9233		J VEG SCI	J. Veg. Sci.	2013	JUL	24	4				616	627	12		160JB	CCC:000320114600005					2019-04-10J	Miettinen, JHyer, EChia, ASKwoh, LKLiew, SC	Miettinen, Jukka; Hyer, Edward; Chia, Aik Song; Kwoh, Leong Keong; Liew, Soo Chin		Detection of vegetation fires and burnt areas by remote sensing in insular Southeast Asian conditions: current status of knowledge and future challenges	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF REMOTE SENSING			English	Review	Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences (PCES)	EARTH SCIENCES	Physical Sciences - Other Topics		LAND-COVER CHANGE, RESOLUTION SATELLITE DATA, ETM PLUS DATA, FOREST-FIRES, SPOT-VEGETATION, NOAA-AVHRR, MODIS DATA, DETECTION ALGORITHM, JAMBI PROVINCE, EASTERN AMAZON	The humid tropical insular Southeast Asian region is one of the most biologically diverse areas in the world. It contains around 70Gt of carbon stored in peat deposits susceptible to burning when drained and it has significantly higher population density than any other humid tropical region. This region experiences yearly fire activity of anthropogenic origin with widely varying extent and severity. At the same time, there are several geographic, climatic, and social aspects that complicate fire monitoring in the region. In this review article, we analyse the current knowledge and limitations of active fire detection and burnt area mapping in insular Southeast Asia, highlighting the special characteristics of the region that affect all types of remote-sensing-based regional-level fire monitoring. We conclude that the monitoring methods currently employed have serious limitations that directly affect the reliability of results for fire and burnt area monitoring in this region. With the materials and methods presently available, the regional and global effects of fire activity taking place in insular Southeast Asia are in danger of being underestimated. New approaches utilizing higher spatial and temporal resolution remote-sensing data are needed for more detailed quantification of fire activity and subsequently improved estimation of the effects of fires in this region.	[Miettinen, J; Chia, AS; Kwoh, LK; Liew, SC] Natl Univ Singapore, Ctr Remote Imaging Sensing & Proc, Singapore 117548, Singapore; [Hyer, E] USN, Res Lab, Marine Meteorol Div, Monterey, CA USA	Miettinen, J (reprint author), Natl Univ Singapore, Ctr Remote Imaging Sensing & Proc, Singapore 117548, Singapore.	jimietti@yahoo.com	Hyer, Edward/E-7734-2011; Liew, Soo Chin/C-9187-2011	Hyer, Edward/0000-0001-8636-2026; Liew, Soo Chin/0000-0001-8342-4682	1	84	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandf.co.uk	0143-1161		INT J REMOTE SENS	Int. J. Remote Sens.	2013	JUN	34	12				4344	4366	23		109UR	CCC:000316395000012					2019-04-10J	Jones, CDCox, JAToriani-Moura, ECooper, RJ	Jones, Clark D.; Cox, James A.; Toriani-Moura, Emily; Cooper, Robert J.		NEST-SITE CHARACTERISTICS OF BACHMAN'S SPARROWS AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO PLANT SUCCESSION FOLLOWING PRESCRIBED BURNS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Bachman's Sparrow, longleaf pine, nest site, Peucaea aestivalis, prescribed fire	LONGLEAF PINE FORESTS, HOME-RANGE, HABITAT, FIRE, SELECTION, PRODUCTIVITY, REGRESSION, SURVIVAL, SAVANNAS	Prescribed fire is a frequently applied land-management tool for the preservation and maintenance of southern pine woodlands. Many avian species benefit from the use of prescribed fire in pine woodlands; however, the effect fire has on nesting site characteristics is not well understood for many disturbance-dependent species. We located nests of Bachman's Sparrows (Peucaea aestivalis) in mature longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) forests managed using frequent prescribed fires (return intervals <= 2 years). Vegetation characteristics were measured at each nest (n = 37), within a 0.04-ha area immediately adjacent to nests, and at different time intervals following burns within a larger 20-ha area surrounding nests. We examined vegetation characteristics within the 20-ha area 2, 6, 12, and 18 months after prescribed burns to compare post-fire plant succession with site characteristics associated with nest sites. Nest sites had lower amounts of grass standing crop, grass ground cover, and higher amounts of woody vegetation than found in the 0.04-ha area immediately surrounding nests. Vegetation structure at nests sites was similar to the structure measured across the 20-ha area <6 months following burns, but vegetation structure at ground level began to deviate >= 6 months after fires such that >= 50% of the values differed from the values recorded at nest sites. Results point to the importance of open vegetation structure at ground level and the need for frequent burning to maintain appropriate nesting habitat. Vegetation characteristics associated with nest sites appear to be highly ephemeral and tightly linked to conditions at ground level. As such, suitable nest sites likely represent a subset of areas occupied by singing males.	[Jones, CD; Cooper, RJ] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Cox, JA] Tall Timbers Res Stn, Tallahassee, FL 32312 USA; [Cox, JA] Land Conservancy, Tallahassee, FL 32312 USA; [Toriani-Moura, E] Univ Vale Sinos, Sao Leopoldo, RS, Brazil	Jones, CD (reprint author), Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, 180 E Green St, Athens, GA 30602 USA.	bacs@uga.edu			4	51	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2013	JUN	125	2				293	300	8	10.1676/12-119.1	170ZG	CCC:000320893300008					2019-04-10J	Pinzon, JSpence, JRLangor, DW	Pinzon, Jaime; Spence, John R.; Langor, David W.		Effects of prescribed burning and harvesting on ground-dwelling spiders in the Canadian boreal mixedwood forest	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Prescribed burning, Disturbance, Forest management, Biodiversity, Indicator species, EMEND	GREEN-TREE RETENTION, NATURAL DISTURBANCE, ARANEAE ASSEMBLAGES, BEETLE COLEOPTERA, BIRD COMMUNITIES, FIRE DISTURBANCE, WESTERN CANADA, WILDFIRE, MANAGEMENT, BIODIVERSITY	The 'Natural Disturbance Paradigm' for forest management seeks to meet conservation goals by modeling industrial harvest in fire-driven forest systems on patterns associated with wildfire. Fire suppression and increased forest harvesting may have detrimental effects on biodiversity, and therefore prescribed burning is suggested to retain legacies of wildfire not emulated under natural disturbance based approaches. The merits of this approach are being tested in the EMEND experiment in the Canadian boreal mixedwood forest. We compared responses of ground-dwelling spiders between sites subjected to prescribed post-harvest burning and retention harvest during three seasons during the first 7 years after disturbance. Overall, 38,661 adult spiders representing 190 species were collected. Estimated species richness was highest in undisturbed sites in all 3 years. Burning had the strongest negative effect on species richness 1-2 years after treatment; however, richness was higher in burns than in harvested sites 5-6 years post-disturbance. Species turnover was highest within controls but tended to increase over time between burned and harvested plots. Lower turnover in burned and harvested sites may reflect habitat homogenization by disturbance, suggesting a management and conservation challenge in relation to naturally disturbed and undisturbed areas. Species were grouped into disturbance-specialists, disturbance-tolerant, disturbance-generalists and generalists; 22 species were significant indicators for untreated sites, 18 for the burn and three for the harvest treatments. No major differences were observed in the spider fauna between harvested and burned areas within the first 6-7 years post-disturbance, and little evidence of recovery toward the pre-harvest fauna was evidenced. However, long term experiments may improve understanding of natural disturbance processes and improve management of boreal forests.	[Pinzon, J; Spence, JR] Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E3, Canada; [Langor, DW] Canadian Forest Serv, No Forestry Ctr, Edmonton, AB T6H 3S5, Canada	Pinzon, J (reprint author), Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, 442 Earth Sci Bldg, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E3, Canada.	jpinzon@ualberta.ca		Pinzon, Jaime/0000-0002-5312-9356	1	81	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2013	JUN	22	6-7				1513	1536	24		155SF	CCC:000319767700014					2019-04-10J	Dumont, BFortun-Lamothe, LJouven, MThomas, MTichit, M	Dumont, B.; Fortun-Lamothe, L.; Jouven, M.; Thomas, M.; Tichit, M.		Prospects from agroecology and industrial ecology for animal production in the 21st century	ANIMAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	aquaculture, environmental footprint, farming systems, inputs, livestock	RECIRCULATING AQUACULTURE SYSTEMS, FARMING SYSTEMS, SUSTAINABLE AQUACULTURE, POLLINATING INSECTS, GRAZING INTENSITY, SPECIES RICHNESS, FOOD-PRODUCTION, WHOLE WHEAT, TRADE-OFFS, LIVESTOCK	Agroecology and industrial ecology can be viewed as complementary means for reducing the environmental footprint of animal farming systems: agroecology mainly by stimulating natural processes to reduce inputs, and industrial ecology by closing system loops, thereby reducing demand for raw materials, lowering pollution and saving on waste treatment. Surprisingly, animal farming systems have so far been ignored in most agroecological thinking. On the basis of a study by Altieri, who identified the key ecological processes to be optimized, we propose five principles for the design of sustainable animal production systems: (i) adopting management practices aiming to improve animal health, (ii) decreasing the inputs needed for production, (iii) decreasing pollution by optimizing the metabolic functioning of farming systems, (iv) enhancing diversity within animal production systems to strengthen their resilience and (v) preserving biological diversity in agroecosystems by adapting management practices. We then discuss how these different principles combine to generate environmental, social and economic performance in six animal production systems (ruminants, pigs, rabbits and aquaculture) covering a long gradient of intensification. The two principles concerning economy of inputs and reduction of pollution emerged in nearly all the case studies, a finding that can be explained by the economic and regulatory constraints affecting animal production. Integrated management of animal health was seldom mobilized, as alternatives to chemical drugs have only recently been investigated, and the results are not yet transferable to farming practices. A number of ecological functions and ecosystem services (recycling of nutrients, forage yield, pollination, resistance to weed invasion, etc.) are closely linked to biodiversity, and their persistence depends largely on maintaining biological diversity in agroecosystems. We conclude that the development of such ecology-based alternatives for animal production implies changes in the positions adopted by technicians and extension services, researchers and policymakers. Animal production systems should not only be considered holistically, but also in the diversity of their local and regional conditions. The ability of farmers to make their own decisions on the basis of the close monitoring of system performance is most important to ensure system sustainability.	[Dumont, B] INRA, Herbivores UMR1213, F-63122 St Genes Champanelle, France; [Fortun-Lamothe, L] INRA, Tissus Anim Nutr Digest Ecosyst & Metab UMR1289, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France; [Jouven, M] SupAgro, Syst Elevage Mediterraneens & Trop UMR868, F-34060 Montpellier, France; [Thomas, M] Univ Lorraine, INRA, Anim & Fonct Prod Anim USC0340, F-54505 Vandoeuvre Les Nancy, France; [Tichit, M] INRA, Sci Act & Dev Act UMR1048, F-75231 Paris, France	Dumont, B (reprint author), INRA, Herbivores UMR1213, F-63122 St Genes Champanelle, France.	bertrand.dumont@clermont.inra.fr			10	298	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	CAMBRIDGE	EDINBURGH BLDG, SHAFTESBURY RD, CB2 8RU CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND	http://www.cambridge.org	1751-7311		ANIMAL	Animal	2013	JUN	7	6				1028	1043	16		136ZH	CCC:000318402300018	23257276	Bronze, Green Published			2019-04-10J	Wassenaar, TDHenschel, JRPfaffenthaler, MMMutota, ENSeely, MKPallett, J	Wassenaar, T. D.; Henschel, J. R.; Pfaffenthaler, M. M.; Mutota, E. N.; Seely, M. K.; Pallett, J.		Ensuring the future of the Namib's biodiversity: Ecological restoration as a key management response to a mining boom	JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Biodiversity, Environmental policy, Mitigation, Rehabilitation, Uranium mining	ISLAND-MATRIX RELATIONSHIPS, KAROO INSELBERG LANDSCAPES, DOMINATED SOIL CRUSTS, ARID-LAND RESTORATION, NAMA-KAROO, SPECIES RICHNESS, SOUTHERN NAMIB, RECOVERY PROCESSES, SUCCULENT KAROO, RESOURCE PULSES	The Namib Desert is an ancient desert on the west coast of southern Africa. The Namib has unique endemic biodiversity and scenic landscapes, with a major part contained in the Namib Naukluft Park and the adjacent Dorob National Park, together forming a major tourism attraction in Namibia. There are currently large exploration and mining developments in the central Namib, fuelled by rising global demand for uranium. Mining contributes significantly to the Namibian GDP, but through destruction of habitats and ecological processes, may cause environmental degradation and loss of ecosystem services. Additionally, Namibia stands to lose a significant part of the biological diversity that makes it unique. These direct impacts are occurring in the context of regional climatic changes that are predicted to have their own severe impacts on biodiversity. A number of tools exist to counter these impacts, among which ecological restoration is an important one. Yet the extent of the damage to ecological processes and functions of Namib, the interactions with climate change and the mechanisms through which the impacts will occur are still not well known. There is thus a crucial need for a better understanding of these arid ecosystems and their response to disturbance, to devise better restoration techniques, and to inform decision makers about management options. This paper analyses the extent of the threats to the central Namib's ecosystems and biodiversity due to mining, identifies critical knowledge gaps for restoration, defines policy needs, and proposes a broad strategy which is intended to be a framework for research, planning and management for sustainable use of this unique desert. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Wassenaar, TD; Henschel, JR; Mutota, EN] Gobabeb Training & Res Ctr, Namib Ecol Restorat & Monitoring Unit, Walvis Bay 9010, Namibia; [Pfaffenthaler, MM] Fauna & Flora Int, Swakopmund, Namibia; [Seely, MK] Desert Res Fdn Namibia, Windhoek, Namibia; [Pallett, J] Southern African Inst Environm Assessment, Windhoek, Namibia	Wassenaar, TD (reprint author), Gobabeb Training & Res Ctr, Namib Ecol Restorat & Monitoring Unit, POB 953,Namib Naukluft Pk, Walvis Bay 9010, Namibia.	theo.wassenaar@gobabeb.org; joh.henschel@mweb.com.na; mish@mweb.com.na; emily.mtota@gmail.com; maty.seely@drfn.org.na; john.pallett@saiea.com			2	109	ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	LONDON	24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND	http://www.apnet.com	0140-1963		J ARID ENVIRON	J. Arid. Environ.	2013	JUN	93				SI	126	135	10		133HQ	CCC:000318129900010					2019-04-10J	Regnery, BPaillet, YCouvet, DKerbiriou, C	Regnery, Baptiste; Paillet, Yoan; Couvet, Denis; Kerbiriou, Christian		Which factors influence the occurrence and density of tree microhabitats in Mediterranean oak forests?	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Tree microhabitats, Mediterranean region, Stand structure, Time since last cutting, Biodiversity	SAPROXYLIC BEETLES, SPECIES RICHNESS, BRITISH-COLUMBIA, ROOST SELECTION, FIR FORESTS, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, MANAGEMENT, HABITAT, BATS	Managed forests have the potential to promote tree microhabitats and hence to conserve the biodiversity, especially of birds, bats, and saproxylic insects, associated with such features. Although the value of tree microhabitats for biodiversity has been described, surprisingly, the factors that explain the occurrence and density of tree microhabitats in managed forests remain poorly known, especially in Mediterranean forests. To address this gap, we studied the occurrence and density of nine types of tree microhabitats inventoried in 1630 trees and 59 forest stands: canopy dead wood; woodpecker cavities; non-woodpecker cavities (with a distinction between lower, medium, and upper cavities); Cerambyx cavities; loose barks or cracks; conks of fungi; and ivy. Each tree was described according to the presence/absence of microhabitats as well as tree diameter, vitality, and species. In each stand, structural variables (basal area, stem density, log volume, stand height, diameter class distribution) and the time since last cutting (i.e., the number of years since the last cutting) were assessed. At the tree level, large-diameter trees, snags, and non-coniferous species supported a higher richness of microhabitats than trees of small diameter, living trees, and conifers. Holm oak (Quercus ilex L.), which is a typical species of Mediterranean forests, exhibited a particularly high ability to host microhabitats. Tree diameter was the best predictor of the occurrence of most microhabitats (7 out of 9). We studied co-occurrences among microhabitats, but our results indicated that microhabitat types served poorly as proxies of other microhabitats due to frequent but unspecific positive relationships. At the stand level, time since last cutting was the best predictor of density of microhabitat-bearing trees and the occurrence of most tree microhabitats. The density of microhabitat-bearing trees was approximately 13 times higher in older stands (>90 years post-cutting) than in recently cut stands (<30 years). To maintain biodiversity in forests, we suggest that managers conserve large trees and snags and preferentially use holm oaks for wood production. Silvicultural practices should include a long rotation period and favor harvesting by group selection to maintain forest stands with a time since last cutting >90 years. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Regnery, B; Couvet, D; Kerbiriou, C] CNRS MNHN PARIS VI, UMR Conservat Especes Restaurat & Suivi Populat 7, F-75005 Paris, France; [Paillet, Y] Irstea, UR EFNO, F-45290 Nogent sur Vernisson, France	Regnery, B (reprint author), Museum Natl Hist Nat, Baptiste Regnery, UMR 7204, 55 Rue Buffon, F-75005 Paris, France.	regnery@mnhn.fr; yoan.paillet@irstea.fr; couvet@mnhn.fr; kerbiriou@mnhn.fr		couvet, denis/0000-0001-8692-9694; Kerbiriou, Christian/0000-0001-6080-4762	3	67	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2013	MAY	295					118	125	8		135XD	CCC:000318323100014					2019-04-10J	Holmes, ALRobinson, WD	Holmes, Aaron L.; Robinson, W. Douglas		Fire mediated patterns of population densities in mountain big sagebrush bird communities	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Artemisia tridentata, birds, Brewer's sparrow, chronosequence, fire, gray flycatcher, green-tailed towhee, horned lark, succession, vesper sparrow	JUNIPER ENCROACHMENT, ARTEMISIA-TRIDENTATA, HABITAT, STEPPE, SHRUBSTEPPE, ECOSYSTEMS, USA, CONSERVATION, VEGETATION, SHRUBLAND	We employed a chronosequence approach to evaluate patterns of bird abundance in relation to post-fire vegetation recovery in mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata vaseyana). We estimated population density for 12 species of birds within the perimeters of 4 fires that had undergone 820 years of vegetation recovery and on adjacent unburned areas in the northwestern Great Basin, USA. Six species showed negative responses to fire persisting up to 20 years. Two species showed positive responses with effects persisting for <20 years. Understory vegetation was similar between burned and unburned areas irrespective of recovery time, and shrub canopy cover was similar between burned and unburned sites after 20 years of recovery. Persistent reductions in bird densities lead us to conclude that shrub canopy cover alone is not a sufficient metric for predicting recovery of songbird abundances following disturbance in mountain big sagebrush. (c) 2013 The Wildlife Society.	[Holmes, AL; Robinson, WD] Oregon State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, Oak Creek Lab Biol, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Holmes, AL] PRBO Conservat Sci, Petaluma, CA 94954 USA	Holmes, AL (reprint author), 611 NW 17th St, Corvallils, OR 97330 USA.	aholmes@prbo.org			2	34	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2013	MAY	77	4				737	748	12		131WJ	CCC:000318028100010					2019-04-10J	Mori, ASFurukawa, TSasaki, T	Mori, Akira S.; Furukawa, Takuya; Sasaki, Takehiro		Response diversity determines the resilience of ecosystems to environmental change	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Life Sciences (LS)	BIOLOGY, EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	biodiversity-ecosystem functioning, complementarity, ecosystem services, effect and response traits, functional compensation, functional diversity, functional redundancy, low multifunctional redundancy, regime shift, trait-based redundancy	FUNCTIONAL DIVERSITY, PLANT DIVERSITY, BIODIVERSITY LOSS, COMMUNITY ECOLOGY, SPECIES RICHNESS, PRODUCTIVITY RELATIONSHIPS, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, MONGOLIAN RANGELANDS, INSURANCE HYPOTHESIS, CURRENT KNOWLEDGE	A growing body of evidence highlights the importance of biodiversity for ecosystem stability and the maintenance of optimal ecosystem functionality. Conservation measures are thus essential to safeguard the ecosystem services that biodiversity provides and human society needs. Current anthropogenic threats may lead to detrimental (and perhaps irreversible) ecosystem degradation, providing strong motivation to evaluate the response of ecological communities to various anthropogenic pressures. In particular, ecosystem functions that sustain key ecosystem services should be identified and prioritized for conservation action. Traditional diversity measures (e.g. species richness') may not adequately capture the aspects of biodiversity most relevant to ecosystem stability and functionality, but several new concepts may be more appropriate. These include response diversity', describing the variation of responses to environmental change among species of a particular community. Response diversity may also be a key determinant of ecosystem resilience in the face of anthropogenic pressures and environmental uncertainty. However, current understanding of response diversity is poor, and we see an urgent need to disentangle the conceptual strands that pervade studies of the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. Our review clarifies the links between response diversity and the maintenance of ecosystem functionality by focusing on the insurance hypothesis of biodiversity and the concept of functional redundancy. We provide a conceptual model to describe how loss of response diversity may cause ecosystem degradation through decreased ecosystem resilience. We explicitly explain how response diversity contributes to functional compensation and to spatio-temporal complementarity among species, leading to long-term maintenance of ecosystem multifunctionality. Recent quantitative studies suggest that traditional diversity measures may often be uncoupled from measures (such as response diversity) that may be more effective proxies for ecosystem stability and resilience. Certain conclusions and recommendations of earlier studies using these traditional measures as indicators of ecosystem resilience thus may be suspect. We believe that functional ecology perspectives incorporating the effects and responses of diversity are essential for development of management strategies to safeguard (and restore) optimal ecosystem functionality (especially multifunctionality). Our review highlights these issues and we envision our work generating debate around the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functionality, and leading to improved conservation priorities and biodiversity management practices that maximize ecosystem resilience in the face of uncertain environmental change.	[Mori, AS; Furukawa, T] Yokohama Natl Univ, Grad Sch Environm & Informat Sci, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2408501, Japan; [Sasaki, T] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Frontier Sci, Kashiwa, Chiba 2778563, Japan	Mori, AS (reprint author), Yokohama Natl Univ, Grad Sch Environm & Informat Sci, 79-7 Tokiwadai, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2408501, Japan.	akkym@kb3.so-net.ne.jp	Sasaki, Takehiro/C-8896-2012; Furukawa, Takuya/I-7835-2012; Mori, Akira/	Sasaki, Takehiro/0000-0001-8727-9152; Furukawa, Takuya/0000-0003-2006-6560; Mori, Akira/0000-0002-8422-1198	26	538	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1464-7931		BIOL REV	Biol. Rev.	2013	MAY	88	2				349	364	16		119AD	CCC:000317067900006	23217173				2019-04-10J	Leidolf, ARyel, RJ	Leidolf, Andreas; Ryel, Ronald J.		AVIAN RESPONSE TO FROST-DAMAGED ASPEN IN NORTHERN UTAH	WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		GYPSY-MOTH DEFOLIATION, BIRD COMMUNITIES, ECOLOGY, CLIMATE, FIRE, CONSERVATION, INDICATORS, MOUNTAINS, HABITAT, DIEBACK	In early May 2007, northern Utah mountains experienced a period of prolonged warmer-than-normal temperatures, followed by a frost that killed or damaged much of the first-flush quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) foliage. We assessed the effects of this transitory disturbance on the aspen bird species assemblage by comparing breeding bird survey data collected in the Bear River Mountain Range, Utah, USA, in 2005 and 2006 (predisturbance) to data from 2007 (postdisturbance). Whereas bird total abundance, species richness, and species diversity did not differ significantly among years, there were significant year-by-frost damage severity interactions, with plots with low levels of frost damage having significantly higher total abundance, richness, and diversity. Based on these results, we concluded that (1) at the landscape scale, the postdisturbance avian species assemblage was essentially identical to the predisturbance assemblage both in terms of number of individuals and species, and (2) there was a pronounced shift in the spatial distribution of birds at the stand scale, with most individuals favoring stands with low levels of frost damage over those with intermediate and high levels of frost damage. Thus, aspen stands with little or no frost damage served as refugia for birds displaced from highly impacted sites, thereby buffering any adverse effects on the avian community as a whole, at least in the short term. However, with severe climatic events predicted to become more frequent, cumulative effects of successive frost-induced defoliations on long-term avian productivity and survival may be more severe.	[Leidolf, A; Ryel, RJ] Utah State Univ, Dept Wildland Resources, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Leidolf, A; Ryel, RJ] Utah State Univ, Ctr Ecol, Logan, UT 84322 USA	Leidolf, A (reprint author), Utah State Univ, Dept Wildland Resources, 5230 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 USA.	andreasleidolf@msn.com			1	4	BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIV	PROVO	290 LIFE SCIENCE MUSEUM, PROVO, UT 84602 USA	http://www.lib.byu.edu/~nms/	1527-0904		WEST N AM NATURALIST	West. North Am. Naturalist	2013	APR	73	1				98	106	9	10.3398/064.073.0110	AM3CM	CCC:000339729500010					2019-04-10J	Burkhalter, JCMoon, DCRossi, AM	Burkhalter, John C.; Moon, Daniel C.; Rossi, Anthony M.		Diversity and Community Similarity of Arthropods in Response to the Restoration of Former Pine Plantations	SOUTHEASTERN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		BOTTOMLAND FOREST RESTORATION, EARLY SUCCESSIONAL PATTERNS, PLANT-COMMUNITIES, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, TREE PLANTATIONS, SPECIES RICHNESS, STRIP MINES, BIODIVERSITY, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT	Ecological restoration is becoming an increasingly important tool in humanity's attempt to manage, conserve, and repair the world's ecosystems. In the current study, the objective was to compare the effects of two restoration methods on arthropod biodiversity and community composition in two former pine plantations; these treatments included both intensive restoration effort (= cleared) and moderate restoration effort (= thinned). For the cleared treatment, vegetation was clear-cut to the soil surface, and all vegetation was removed from the plots, while the thinned treatment consisted of reducing the Pinus elliotii (Slash Pine) density to that of a native ecosystem and removing of all exotic plants from the plots as well. Arthropods were sampled by employing pitfall traps, sticky traps, and sweep netting and identified to family and morphospecies; species richness, diversity, and community similarity were compared between treatments and sites. Experimental treatments quickly reached or exceeded arthropod diversity and richness of an unmanipulated control treatment; however, the two sites produced non-overlapping ordination plots, suggesting that the diversity of the two sites are either compositionally different (alpha diversity) or community assemblage is incomplete and overall regional (beta) diversity has not reached an equilibrium across sites. Additional long-term data should reveal if these plots are proceeding along different successional trajectories in terms of community species composition, or whether treatments, while having similar richness, support different communities because the three types of plots used in this study (control, thinned, and cleared) represent various successional stages which affect arthropod species identity, but not overall richness.	[Burkhalter, JC; Moon, DC; Rossi, AM] Univ N Florida, Dept Biol, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA	Rossi, AM (reprint author), Univ N Florida, Dept Biol, 1UNF Dr, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA.	arossi@unf.edu			1	34	HUMBOLDT FIELD RESEARCH INST	STEUBEN	PO BOX 9, STEUBEN, ME 04680-0009 USA		1528-7092		SOUTHEAST NAT	Southeast. Nat.	2013	APR	12	1				121	136	16		184DY	CCC:000321868900010					2019-04-10J	Sokos, CKMamolos, APKalburtji, KLBirtsas, PK	Sokos, Christos K.; Mamolos, Andreas P.; Kalburtji, Kiriaki L.; Birtsas, Periklis K.		Farming and wildlife in Mediterranean agroecosystems	JOURNAL FOR NATURE CONSERVATION			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Birds and habitats directives, Biodiversity, Habitat use, Mammals, Protected areas, Common agricultural policy	AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, LAND-USE CHANGES, BIRD COMMUNITIES, LESSER KESTREL, HABITAT USE, CONSERVATION IMPLICATIONS, LANDSCAPE CONTEXT, FORAGING HABITAT, SPECIES RICHNESS, FIELD MANAGEMENT	Mediterranean ecosystems are rich in wildlife species and habitats. In the last decades human pressure is increasing in lowland and coastal areas, while mountainous and island areas are being abandoned. These changes have substantial impacts on biodiversity protected by EU Directives. Recently agri-environmental schemes and wildlife habitat improvement measures have been taken to prevent biodiversity loss, although only a small proportion of their total budget is targeted directly at biodiversity conservation. Measures for wildlife are generally limited to restricted areas for a short-term period and in most cases have not been evaluated or properly applied. This review examines the influence of farming systems, agri-environmental and wildlife management measures on birds and mammals in Mediterranean agroecosystems. The conclusions are that in Mediterranean agroecosystems the most cost efficient and beneficial conservation measures for bird and mammal species are rotation, intercropping, and the selection of appropriate crops and farming practices. The increased biodiversity in the Mediterranean basin requires special management practices at local levels. (C) 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	[Sokos, CK; Mamolos, AP; Kalburtji, KL] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Ecol & Environm Protect, Fac Agr, GR-54124 Thessaloniki, Greece; [Sokos, CK] Hunting Federat Macedonia & Thrace, Div Res, GR-55134 Thessaloniki, Greece; [Birtsas, PK] Appl Sci Inst Larissa, Lab Wildlife, Dept Forestry & Management Nat Environm, GR-43100 Kardhitsa, Greece	Mamolos, AP (reprint author), Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Ecol & Environm Protect, Fac Agr, GR-54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.	mamolos@agro.auth.gr	Mamolos, Andreas/D-5301-2011	Mamolos, Andreas/0000-0002-1052-337X	1	73	ELSEVIER GMBH	MUNICH	HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	1617-1381		J NAT CONSERV	J. Nat. Conserv.	2013	APR	21	2				81	92	12		114GW	CCC:000316730100003					2019-04-10J	Powell, AFLABusby, WH	Powell, Alexis F. L. A.; Busby, William H.		Effects of Grassland Management on Breeding Birds at the Western Edge of the Tallgrass Prairie Ecosystem in Kansas	NATURAL AREAS JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	grassland birds, grazing, haying, prescribed burning, rangeland, tallgrass prairie	HABITAT QUALITY, LAND MANAGEMENT, SPIZA-AMERICANA, RESPONSES, HETEROGENEITY, DICKCISSELS, COMMUNITY, PATTERNS, DENSITY, FIRE	We studied responses of breeding birds to alternative regimes for managing tallgrass prairie at the Smoky Hill Air National Guard Range in central Kansas. Species richness, diversity, and evenness did not differ among treatments, but overall abundance was highest in unburned idle (i.e., not grazed or hayed) transects, and was lowest in idle transects burned that spring. However, no treatment was either superior or inferior to all others for attracting the highest numbers of every species. Dickcissels (Spiza americana) and Henlow's sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii) were most numerous in unburned idle units, grasshopper sparrows (A. savannarum) were most abundant in grazed units and hayed units, upland sandpipers (Bartramia longicauda) were most often found in burned units, whereas eastern meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) were less abundant in burned units than in all other treatments. We conclude that the recent switch to burning idle units every 3-4 years, rather than annually, has benefitted most grassland bird species. The variety of management regimes implemented at Smoky Hill Air National Guard Range fosters heterogeneity of vegetative structure across the landscape, and thereby allows the site to provide for differing needs of various species, thus enhancing its value for grassland bird conservation.	[Powell, AFLA; Busby, WH] Univ Kansas, Kansas Biol Survey, Lawrence, KS 66047 USA	Powell, AFLA (reprint author), Univ Minnesota, Dept Ecol Evolut & Behav, 100 Ecology Bldg,1987 Upper Buford Circle, St Paul, MN 55108 USA.	alveypowell@yahoo.com			4	33	NATURAL AREAS ASSOC	ROCKFORD	320 SOUTH THIRD ST, ROCKFORD, IL 61104 USA	http://www.vmedia.com/naj	0885-8608		NAT AREA J	Nat. Areas J.	2013	APR	33	2				130	138	9		AQ5UW	CCC:000342875100002					2019-04-10J	Lohmus, KLiira, J	Lohmus, Kertu; Liira, Jaan		Old rural parks support higher biodiversity than forest remnants	BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Forest biodiversity, Forest management, Landscape planning, Plantations, Refugium, Stand structure, Sustainable management, Forest fragmentation	SPECIES COMPOSITION, BOREAL FOREST, KEY HABITATS, LANDSCAPE, GROWTH, PRODUCTIVITY, INDICATORS, DIVERSITY, LEGACIES, HISTORY	One of the main challenges in biodiversity conservation is to curb a further degradation and loss of high-quality habitats. In agricultural matrix landscapes, the detection of alternative habitats for habitat specialists may be a solution. Historic old parks or landscape gardens around manor houses and castles are cultural heritage of nobles, but their value in harbouring biodiversity is poorly acknowledged. Therefore we evaluated the potential of old rural parks to serve as a habitat for nemoral forest species. We recorded stand structure and the presence of forest biodiversity indicators in 74 closed-canopy stands of historic parks and compared them with 93 neighbouring mature forest remnants on ancient forest land. We estimated the importance of stand structure in relation to habitat type on biodiversity indicators. Finally we suggest single-value indicator-complexes for the cost-efficient assessment of the conservation value of forests and forest-like habitats. Park stands outclassed reference forests in several individual structural characteristics, and in combined indicators of habitat quality and biodiversity. Forests had higher estimates for the combined indicator of dead wood, but large-diameter dead wood types were more abundant in parks. Woodpeckers, several old-growth indicator epiphytes and forest herbs had successfully become established in planted forest-like park fragments. Old rural parks resemble high-conservation-value forests more than the best preserved contemporary forest remnants. After the century needed to overcome immigration delay, old parks do provide a refugium for temperate deciduous forest species. Consequently, biodiversity-targeted management should retain and enhance old-growth attributes in forests and on the peripheries of parks: e.g. preserving old trees to provide service for epiphytes, hollow trees and an understorey mosaic for birds and bats; dead wood elements for saproxylic insects and fungi; limited mowing frequency and increased cutting height for forest herbs. Forestry should enhance the recovery of mixed deciduous stands and avoid conifer plantations.	[Lohmus, K; Liira, J] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, EE-51005 Tartu, Estonia	Lohmus, K (reprint author), Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Lai 40, EE-51005 Tartu, Estonia.	kertu.lohmus@ut.ee	Lohmus, Kertu/I-5621-2016; Liira, Jaan/G-9879-2015	Lohmus, Kertu/0000-0003-0470-6521; Liira, Jaan/0000-0001-8863-0098	3	123	ELSEVIER GMBH	MUNICH	HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	1439-1791		BASIC APPL ECOL	Basic Appl. Ecol.	2013	MAR	14	2				165	173	9		122XO	CCC:000317352100008					2019-04-10J	Bianchi, FJJAMikos, VBrussaard, LDelbaere, BPulleman, MM	Bianchi, F. J. J. A.; Mikos, V.; Brussaard, L.; Delbaere, B.; Pulleman, M. M.		Opportunities and limitations for functional agrobiodiversity in the European context	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & POLICY			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Biodiversity, Ecosystem services, Sustainability, Agriculture, EU policy	MANAGING ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, DIFFERENT SPATIAL SCALES, NATURAL PEST-CONTROL, LAND-USE INTENSITY, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, SPECIES RICHNESS, ORGANIC-MATTER, SOIL-STRUCTURE, FIELD MARGINS	To counteract the negative effects of intensive agriculture there is increasing interest in approaches that reconcile agricultural production with the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and associated ecosystem services. Integration of functional agrobiodiversity (FAB) in agricultural systems holds promise to meet these challenging objectives, but requires the generation, transfer and implementation of tailor-made knowledge, and policy development. Currently various initiatives are undertaken across Europe to develop and assess the potential of biodiversity-based management practices by farmers, industry, researchers and governmental and non-governmental organizations. In this paper we show that the Convention on Biological Diversity and planned reforms in EU policy offer scope to further implement FAB concepts via legislation for biodiversity conservation, pesticide use, water quality, environmental protection and conservation of genetic resources. At the same time we observe that there are still impediments to the adoption of FAB approaches, including (i) translation of general knowledge to tailored, ready-to-use management practices, (ii) limited information on the effectiveness of FAB measures in terms of crop yield and quality, profitability, and reduction of agrochemical inputs, (iii) lack of appropriate financial accounting systems that allow fair accounting of the private investments and public benefits, and (iv) the implementation of FAB measures at the right spatial scales, which requires coordination among the various actors in a region. Current and new legislation may provide incentives to address these limitations and contribute to the further development and integration of FAB concepts in agricultural systems in Europe. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Bianchi, FJJA; Brussaard, L; Pulleman, MM] Wageningen Univ, Dept Soil Qual, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Bianchi, FJJA] Wageningen Univ, NL-6700 AN Wageningen, Netherlands; [Mikos, V; Delbaere, B] ECNC, NL-5000 LG Tilburg, Netherlands	Bianchi, FJJA (reprint author), Wageningen Univ, POB 563, NL-6700 AN Wageningen, Netherlands.	felix.bianchi@wur.nl	Brussaard, Lijbert/A-1698-2014; Bianchi, Felix/B-6044-2011	Brussaard, Lijbert/0000-0003-3870-1411; 	1	132	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	1462-9011		ENVIRON SCI POLICY	Environ. Sci. Policy	2013	MAR	27					223	231	9		115WV	CCC:000316843500021		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Ontiveros, DMarquez-Ferrando, RFernandez-Cardenete, JRSantos, XCaro, JPleguezuelos, JM	Ontiveros, Diego; Marquez-Ferrando, Rocio; Fernandez-Cardenete, Juan R.; Santos, Xavier; Caro, Jesus; Pleguezuelos, Juan M.		Recovery of the Bird Community after a Mine Spill and Landscape Restoration of a Mediterranean River	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Aznalcollar mine spill, bird communities, landscape restoration, riparian corridor	TAILING ACCIDENT, GUADIAMAR RIVER, AZNALCOLLAR, SPAIN, RECOLONIZATION, DISASTER	In Mediterranean areas, river systems are key for maintaining regional biodiversity by providing a high diversity of habitats. We studied bird community recovery for 9 years (20012009) during landscape restoration and Guadiamar Green Corridor establishment in the area affected by the Aznalcollar mine spill (SW Spain, 1998). One year following plant restoration (3 years after the spill), values for - and -bird species diversity were high, sooner than reported for similar restoration processes elsewhere. Species richness, ecological diversity, and abundance increased only slightly in the following 8 years. Overlap between communities in sequential years, measured by similarity indexes, increased throughout the study period to about 70% during final survey years, and most breeding bird species present before the accident again inhabit the area. Only 5 years after the mine accident, bird communities in the restored site were similar in species richness, abundance, and diversity to an unaffected reference site; redundancy analysis demonstrated that bird communities were also similar between the reference river and the Guadiamar. Despite the severity of the mine accident, our results suggest a swift recovery of the bird community. We attribute this success to the rapid restoration of habitat availability and the resilience of the birds. This long-term study contributes to our limited knowledge of bird species response to habitat restoration following toxic spills in Mediterranean habitats.	[Ontiveros, D; Marquez-Ferrando, R; Fernandez-Cardenete, JR; Caro, J; Pleguezuelos, JM] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain; [Santos, X] Univ Barcelona, Dept Biol Anim, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain; [Santos, X] Univ Porto, CIBIO, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal; [Caro, J] CSIC UCLM JCCM, IREC, Inst Invest Recursos Cineget, Ciudad Real, Spain	Ontiveros, D (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain.	dontive@ugr.es	Santos, Xavier/L-7748-2013; Marquez-Ferrando, Rocio/F-2578-2013	Santos, Xavier/0000-0002-4330-4261; 	2	37	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2013	MAR	21	2				193	199	7		105MN	CCC:000316075000011					2019-04-10J	Lesmeister, DBCrowhurst, RSMillspaugh, JJGompper, ME	Lesmeister, Damon B.; Crowhurst, Rachel S.; Millspaugh, Joshua J.; Gompper, Matthew E.		Landscape Ecology of Eastern Spotted Skunks in Habitats Restored for Red-Cockaded Woodpeckers	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	conservation conflict, forest structure, Ouachita Mountains, Picoides borealis, pine-bluestem, Spilogale putorius	SPILOGALE-PUTORIUS, NONINVASIVE TECHNIQUES, OUACHITA MOUNTAINS, FORAGING HABITAT, HOME-RANGE, CONSERVATION, ARKANSAS, CARNIVORE, RESTORATION, COMMUNITIES	Although examples are rare, conflicts between species of conservation concern can result from habitat restoration that modifies habitat to benefit a single taxon. A forest restoration program designed to enhance habitat for endangered red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) may be reducing available habitat for the eastern spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius), a forest-adapted sympatric species of conservation concern that occurs in the Ouachita National Forest, Arkansas, U.S.A. At small scales, eastern spotted skunks select early successional forest with structural diversity, whereas red-cockaded woodpeckers prefer mature pine (Pinus spp.) habitat. We surveyed for eastern spotted skunks at 50 managed forest stands, modeled occupancy as a function of landscape-level habitat factors to examine how features of restoration practices influenced occurrence, and compared known occupied forest stands to those where active red-cockaded woodpecker nesting clusters were located. The most-supported occupancy models contained forest stand age (negatively associated) and size (positively associated); suggesting eastern spotted skunks primarily occupy large patches of habitat with dense understory and overhead cover. Red-cockaded woodpecker nesting clusters were located in smaller and older forest stands. These results suggest that increased overhead cover, which can reduce risk of avian predation, enhances occupancy by small forest carnivores such as eastern spotted skunks. Management activities that increase forest stand rotation length reduce the availability of young dense forest. The practice may enhance the value of habitat for red-cockaded woodpeckers, but may reduce the occurrence of eastern spotted skunks. Implementing plans that consider critical habitat and extinction risks for multiple species may reduce such conservation conflict.	[Lesmeister, DB; Crowhurst, RS; Millspaugh, JJ; Gompper, ME] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Lesmeister, DB] So Illinois Univ, Dept Zool, Cooperat Wildlife Res Lab, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Crowhurst, RS] Oregon State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA	Lesmeister, DB (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, 302 Nat Resources, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	damon.lesmeister@gmail.com			3	33	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2013	MAR	21	2				267	275	9		105MN	CCC:000316075000020					2019-04-10J	Ikin, KKnight, ELindenmayer, DBFischer, JManning, AD	Ikin, Karen; Knight, Emma; Lindenmayer, David B.; Fischer, Joern; Manning, Adrian D.		The influence of native versus exotic streetscape vegetation on the spatial distribution of birds in suburbs and reserves	DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Landscape planning, matrix management, protected areas, South-eastern Australia, urban forest, urbanization	HABITAT RELATIONSHIPS, LAND-USE, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, FRAGMENTED LANDSCAPE, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, AVIAN ASSEMBLAGES, MATRIX HABITATS, URBAN LANDSCAPE, WOODED STREETS, FOREST BIRDS	Aim Management practices in the landscape matrix can have significant effects on the spatial distribution of animals within adjacent protected areas. This has been well established in agricultural and forested areas, but less is known about how management of the suburban matrix affects adjacent reserves. We argue that it is critically important to understand the impact of suburban management on reserves, as flawed planning decisions can have negative conservation outcomes and waste limited resources. Location Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia. Methods We examined bird distribution patterns in suburbs and adjacent reserves to the effects of two suburban management practices: (1) street tree planting and (2) boundary design. We focused on three groups of birds with known responses to urbanization: native urban-intolerant species (native avoiders), native urban-tolerant species (native adapters) and exotic urban-tolerant species (exotic adapters). Results We found that suburbs with 30% native (Eucalyptus) street trees and reserves adjacent to these suburbs had significantly higher bird species richness, native adapter species richness and probability of reporting exotic adapters than those with exotic trees. The type of street trees, however, did not affect the probability of reporting native avoiders. These species were more likely to be reported when habitat complexity was high. Only native adapters responded to boundary design, with higher species richness when the boundary type was a local or unsealed road as opposed to an arterial road. Main conclusions Native street trees provide foraging resources for birds that would be reduced or absent in exotic streetscapes, enabling native streetscapes to support a rich community of birds. Furthermore, native streetscapes increase bird richness and diversity in adjacent reserves. This result has important conservation implications for suburb and reserve management practices. Our study provides evidence that the establishment and retention of native suburban streetscapes is an important management strategy for improved bird conservation.	[Ikin, K; Lindenmayer, DB; Fischer, J; Manning, AD] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Knight, E] Australian Natl Univ, Ctr Math & Its Applicat, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; [Fischer, J] Leuphana Univ Lueneburg, Inst Ecol, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany	Ikin, K (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	karen.ikin@anu.edu.au	Ikin, Karen/G-2845-2012; Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017; Fischer, Joern/C-6625-2012; Manning, Adrian/; Knight, Emma/	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088; Fischer, Joern/0000-0003-3187-8978; Manning, Adrian/0000-0003-0989-9203; Knight, Emma/0000-0002-4549-1531	1	151	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1366-9516		DIVERS DISTRIB	Divers. Distrib.	2013	MAR	19	3				294	306	13		096LA	CCC:000315404100005					2019-04-10J	Little, ITHockey, PARJansen, R	Little, Ian T.; Hockey, Philip A. R.; Jansen, Raymond		A burning issue: Fire overrides grazing as a disturbance driver for South African grassland bird and arthropod assemblage structure and diversity	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Grasslands, Arthropods, Birds, Disturbance, Fire, Grazing	WESTERN CAPE PROVINCE, MPUMALANGA PROVINCE, COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, SPECIES RICHNESS, BIODIVERSITY, HABITAT, CONSERVATION, LIVESTOCK, AGRICULTURE, LANDSCAPE	In this study, we investigated the responses of two faunal groups, birds and arthropods, to varying degrees of disturbance caused by fire and grazing in South Africa, eight study sites of varying fire frequency and stocking density were studied over two summer seasons (October-March). Bird assemblages reflected habitat disturbance in a diversity of ways, driven by factors ranging from direct disturbance to changes in habitat structure and functioning, and shifts in food availability. Similarly, arthropod diversity and abundance changed seasonally in response to management practices. Fire frequency drives faunal assemblage structure and abundance and, in most cases, overrides the effects of grazing at all taxonomic levels. In particular, fire frequency strongly influenced grassland-breeding birds because farms are burnt in the territory-forming stage of the breeding cycle. Insectivores, and nectarivores were disproportionately impacted by intensive commercial management. Of particular concern in this system is the yellow-breasted pipit (Anthus chloris), which is regionally and globally Vulnerable because of habitat loss. This species is sensitive to any form of habitat disturbance, highlighting the need for conservation attention in these grasslands. Of the ten arthropod orders present in the study area, only Orthoptera responded positively to burning. However, orthopterans made up on average 78% of arthropod biomass in moist highland grasslands, resulting in high grasshopper biomass on annually burnt farms: this high biomass in turn supports an abundance of insectivores. This reinforces the importance of process-oriented data where a measure of performance, such as reproductive Success, is considered in assessing ecosystem condition. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Little, IT; Hockey, PAR] Univ Cape Town, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, Percy FitzFatrick Inst African Ornithol, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Jansen, R] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Environm Water & Earth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa	Little, IT (reprint author), 3 Sangster Rd, ZA-3290 Howick, South Africa.	ianl@ewt.org.za			1	57	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2013	FEB	158					258	270	13		133HA	CCC:000318128300028					2019-04-10J	Mitchell, ND	Mitchell, Neil D.		Tiritiri Matangi Island: what if nothing had been done?	NEW ZEALAND JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Tiritiri Matangi Island, ecological restoration, revegetation, succession	NEW-ZEALAND, SADDLEBACKS, RESTORATION	Forty years since the cessation of grazing on Tiritiri Matangi, the island has been transformed by a restoration programme. However, a big question remained: What the island would have looked like if restoration had not occurred? This study addresses that question. Some sections of the island were deliberately not restored and allowed to regenerate naturally to provide a reference point for the changes brought about by direct intervention. In one area a transect of plots was available in which species composition and frequency information had been measured in a pre-restoration state. A comparison, almost 30 years later, showed that many previously dominant pasture grasses had been lost, and replaced by native grassland dominated by Microlena stipoides. Also, native shrubs and small trees absent from the pasture grassland in 1979 were now present, although in low abundance. Overall this study shows that in this environment, even 40 years after the cessation of grazing, the succession to woody vegetation is slow. It may be another 40 years before woody vegetation dominates the area. This demonstrates that active restoration of the island greatly accelerated the development of forest over natural regeneration, and this has undoubtedly allowed the rapid expansion of many otherwise very restricted bird species.	Univ Auckland, Sch Environm, Auckland 1, New Zealand	Mitchell, ND (reprint author), Univ Auckland, Sch Environm, Private Bag 92019, Auckland 1, New Zealand.	n.mitchell@auckland.ac.nz			0	3	NEW ZEALAND ECOL SOC	CHRISTCHURCH	PO BOX 25178, CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND		0110-6465		NEW ZEAL J ECOL	N. Z. J. Ecol.	2013		37	3			SI	261	265	5		285HH	CCC:000329383900003					2019-04-10J	Kajtoch, LFigarski, TPelka, J	Kajtoch, Lukasz; Figarski, Tomasz; Pelka, Jakub		The role of forest structural elements in determining the occurrence of two specialist woodpecker species in the Carpathians, Poland	ORNIS FENNICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		WHITE-BACKED WOODPECKER, 3-TOED WOODPECKER, DEAD-WOOD, DENDROCOPOS-LEUCOTOS, PICOIDES-TRIDACTYLUS, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, BIALOWIEZA FOREST, EUROPEAN FORESTS, MODEL SELECTION, BOREAL FORESTS	The White-backed Woodpecker (WbW) and the Three-toed Woodpecker (TtW) are rare woodpecker species that inhabit natural old-growth forests with abundant dead wood in Eurasia. We studied stand-related environmental factors subject to forest management (stand structure, tree-species composition, accessibility by humans) in determining the distribution of these two species in mountainous forests of the Polish Carpathians. Data were collected during 2007-2009 at the Beskid Wyspowy Mountains. WbWs preferred multispecies deciduous over pure beech forests, whereas TtWs were most frequently found in spruce-dominated forests. The thresholds of dead and dying wood for WbW presence in managed forests were approximately 50 m(3)ha(-1) and 35 m(3)ha(-1), respectively, and for TtW were approximately 30 m(3) ha(-1) and 115 m(3)ha(-1), respectively. These were 5-8 times higher than in randomly-selected control plots with no woodpeckers. In both cases, lower logging intensity on difficult-to-access slopes and higher amount of dead and dying wood correlated with increasing occupancy probability of the woodpeckers. These results help develop classification criteria for the monitoring of woodpecker habitats over the Natura 2000 network and improve the ecological soundness of forest management guidelines.	[Kajtoch, L] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Evolut & Systemat Anim, PL-31016 Krakow, Poland	Kajtoch, L (reprint author), Polish Acad Sci, Inst Evolut & Systemat Anim, Slawkowska 17 St, PL-31016 Krakow, Poland.	kajtoch@isez.pan.krakow.pl	Kajtoch, Lukasz/B-4236-2012	Kajtoch, Lukasz/0000-0001-7345-9400	0	33	BIRDLIFE FINLAND	HELSINKI	PO BOX 1285, HELSINKI, 00101, FINLAND	http://www.ornisfennica.org	0030-5685		ORNIS FENNICA	Ornis Fenn.	2013		90	1				23	40	18		130VI	CCC:000317947800004					2019-04-10J	Wells, KO'Hara, RBBohm, SMGockel, SHemp, ARenner, SCPfeiffer, SBoehning-Gaese, KKalko, EKV	Wells, K.; O'Hara, R. B.; Boehm, S. M.; Gockel, S.; Hemp, A.; Renner, S. C.; Pfeiffer, S.; Boehning-Gaese, K.; Kalko, E. K. V.		Trait-dependent occupancy dynamics of birds in temperate forest landscapes: fine-scale observations in a hierarchical multi-species framework	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird community, biodiversity conservation, forest management, functional traits, multi-species hierarchical modelling, patch occupancy, silviculture	REGIONAL SPECIES RICHNESS, COMMUNITY, MODELS, BIODIVERSITY, ABUNDANCE, PATTERNS, FRAGMENTATION, UNCERTAINTY, ENVIRONMENT, DISTURBANCE	Silvicultural practices lead to changes in forest composition and structure and may impact species diversity from the overall regional species pool to stand-level species occurrence. We explored to what extent fine-scale occupancy patterns in differently managed forest stands are driven by environment and ecological traits in three regions in Germany using a multi-species hierarchical model. We tested for the possible impact of environmental variables and ecological traits on occupancy dynamics in a joint modelling exercise while taking possible variation in coefficient estimates over years and plots into account. Bird species richness differed across regions and years, and trends in species richness across years were different in the three regions. On the species level, forest management affected occupancy of species in all regions, but only 35% of the total assemblage-level variation in occurrence probability was explained by either forest type and successional stage and <?1% by forest edge. On the assemblage level, bird occurrence decreased with body mass in all regions. Species with smaller breeding ranges had lower occurrence probabilities in one region, while later spring arrival decreased occurrence probabilities in the two other regions. Spatial variation in the effect size of trait covariates such as species phylogeny and breeding strata showed that variation in patch occupancy due to fine-scale differences in forest management is, to some extent, predictable from ecological traits. Our results show that environmental factors and ecological traits jointly predict variation in bird occupancy patterns and their response to forest management. Observations at the fine scale of forest stands, at which conservation efforts can be arranged along with forest management practices in heterogeneous environments, have been shown to provide meaningful insights despite the difficulties involved in monitoring mobile organisms such as birds at the plot level.	[Wells, K; Bohm, SM; Renner, SC; Kalko, EKV] Univ Ulm, Inst Expt Ecol, D-89081 Ulm, Germany; [Wells, K; O'Hara, RB; Boehning-Gaese, K] Biodivers & Climate Res Ctr BiK F, Frankfurt, Germany; [Gockel, S] Univ Jena, Inst Ecol, Jena, Germany; [Hemp, A; Pfeiffer, S] Univ Potsdam, Inst Biochem & Biol, Potsdam, Germany; [Kalko, EKV] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Balboa, Panama	Wells, K (reprint author), Univ Ulm, Inst Expt Ecol, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.	konstans.wells@uni-ulm.de	O'Hara, Robert/A-7499-2008; Wells, Konstans/A-7232-2010; Renner, Swen/	O'Hara, Robert/0000-0001-9737-3724; Wells, Konstans/0000-0003-0377-2463; Renner, Swen/0000-0002-6893-4219	2	54	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2012	DEC	15	6				626	637	12		057AH	CCC:000312533400011					2019-04-10J	Holimon, WCAkin, JABaltosser, WHRideout, CWWitsell, CT	Holimon, William C.; Akin, Jennifer A.; Baltosser, William H.; Rideout, Catherine W.; Witsell, C. Theo		Structure and composition of grassland habitats used by wintering Smith's Longspurs: the importance of native grasses	JOURNAL OF FIELD ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Aristida, Arkansas, Calcarius pictus, grassland, habitat association, winter ecology	BIRD COMMUNITIES, ABANDONED FIELDS, PASSERINE BIRDS, NORTH-AMERICA, FIRE, EXTINCTION, THREEAWN, RANGE	Smith's Longspurs (Calcarius pictus) are a species of concern in North America because of their limited range and apparent low population size. To better understand winter habitat needs and guide management of this species, we examined habitat associations of Smith's Longspurs in eastern Arkansas by comparing grassland patches where Smith's Longspurs flushed to randomly located patches in the same area. Smith's Longspurs were found in sparse grassland patches of relatively low height adjacent to airport runways where the native grass prairie three-awn (Aristida oligantha) dominated ground cover and vertical structure. Smith's Longspurs were not found in vegetation plots dominated by non-native Bermuda grass (Cynodon dactylon). Prairie three-awn grass may provide concealment from predators and their seeds may be an important food source. Occurrence of Smith's Longspurs was also correlated with less litter, perhaps because deeper litter could make walking and searching for seeds more difficult. Availability of suitable habitat for Smith's Longspurs along airport runways may be declining due to natural succession of grassland habitat in the absence of disturbance and recent changes in management that favor Bermuda grass. Conversion and degradation of native prairie has resulted in the decline in abundance and distribution of Chestnut-collared Longspurs (C. ornatus) and McCown's Longspurs (Rhynchophanes mccownii). Our findings suggest that conversion of native grasslands to non-native grasslands results in loss and degradation of habitat for wintering populations of Smith's Longspurs.	[Holimon, WC; Akin, JA; Witsell, CT] Arkansas Nat Heritage Commiss, Little Rock, AR 72201 USA; [Baltosser, WH] Univ Arkansas, Dept Biol, Little Rock, AR 72204 USA; [Rideout, CW] Auburn Univ, US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Sch Forestry & Wildlife 3301, Auburn, AL 36849 USA	Holimon, WC (reprint author), Arkansas Nat Heritage Commiss, 323 Ctr St,Suite 1500, Little Rock, AR 72201 USA.	BillH@arkansasheritage.org			1	32	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0273-8570		J FIELD ORNITHOL	J. Field Ornithol.	2012	DEC	83	4				351	361	11		041PN	CCC:000311413800003					2019-04-10J	Linden, DWRoloff, GJKroll, AJ	Linden, Daniel W.; Roloff, Gary J.; Kroll, Andrew J.		Conserving avian richness through structure retention in managed forests of the Pacific Northwest, USA	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Avian richness, Forest practice rules, Hierarchical modeling, Multi-species occupancy, Pacific Northwest, Structure retention	HIERARCHICAL BAYES ESTIMATION, ESTIMATING SPECIES RICHNESS, SILVICULTURAL TREATMENTS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, BRITISH-COLUMBIA, OCCUPANCY, RESPONSES, BIODIVERSITY, HABITAT, MODELS	Structure retention is a practice used in managed forests to assist the conservation of biological diversity, whereby green trees, dead trees (i.e. snags), and downed wood are retained during timber harvest. This activity is recognized as beneficial. However, there is little scientific support to guide the management prescriptions (e.g. patch sizes, distribution pattern). We quantified the short-term response of birds to structure retention in timber harvest areas located in the Pacific Northwest. We used a hierarchical community model to examine how attributes of retention sites (number of trees and snags, distance to forest edge) were associated with the species richness of birds using the sites. The modeling framework integrated multiple species-specific occupancy models that accounted for imperfect detection to produce estimates of species richness. We sampled a biogeoclimatic gradient by selecting harvest units within four separate regions (two in Washington, one each in Oregon and California) that support different forest types. Observations were conducted at a random selection of retention sites (e.g. patches, individual trees) within harvest units to record bird use during the breeding seasons of 2008 and 2009. Estimated occupancy and detection probabilities differed by species and region. Retained tree count was associated with an increased occupancy probability for all observed species. The community response to tree count was consistent across all study regions and years - species richness estimates increased with tree count and approximated a species-area curve. Snag count and edge distance did not significantly affect occupancy probability for any observed species, and therefore, had no relationship with species richness. These results suggest that the diversity of birds using structure retention in harvest units can be maximized at patches of >10-15 rotation-age trees. Forest managers are encouraged to group green-trees around high-quality snags and other unique wildlife trees where possible, and to vary prescriptions across stands to provide habitat heterogeneity at the landscape scale. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Linden, DW; Roloff, GJ] Michigan State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Kroll, AJ] Weyerhaeuser Co, Federal Way, WA 98063 USA	Linden, DW (reprint author), Michigan State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, 480 Wilson Rd,13 Nat Resources Bldg, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA.	lindend1@msu.edu		Linden, Daniel/0000-0002-7117-189X	1	66	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2012	NOV	284					174	184	11		035KN	CCC:000310945600019					2019-04-10J	Politi, NHunter, MRivera, L	Politi, Natalia; Hunter, Malcolm, Jr.; Rivera, Luis		Assessing the effects of selective logging on birds in Neotropical piedmont and cloud montane forests	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Andes, Austral Yungas, Cavity nesters, Diet, Guild, Logging	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, SPECIES RICHNESS, RAIN-FOREST, COSTA-RICA, ELEVATIONAL GRADIENT, INSECTIVOROUS BIRDS, UNDERSTORY BIRDS, ATLANTIC FOREST, NORTHWESTERN ARGENTINA, HABITAT MODIFICATION	In tropical and subtropical forests there is limited information about how to integrate sustainable timber management with the conservation of biodiversity. We examined the effect of selective logging on the bird community to help develop management guidelines to assure the conservation of biodiversity in forests managed for timber production. The study design consisted of control and harvested plots in piedmont and cloud forests of the subtropical montane forests of the Andes in northwestern Argentina. We conducted bird point-count surveys combined with distance estimation. Breeding season bird community composition was more similar between control and logged forest in both the cloud forest and piedmont, than between the two elevations, probably because Neotropical bird communities change dramatically along elevational gradients. Within each elevation zone, community composition changed significantly between harvested and control forests. Both between and within each elevation zone no significant differences in bird density were detected. Similarly, when we analyzed bird density according to diet guilds no general pattern could be extracted. However, we found a significantly greater density of cavity nesters and lower of non-cavity nesters in control plots, probably because most trees that can develop suitable cavities were extracted in logged plots and these plots had a greater structural diversity enabling more nesting resources. Grouping species according to their nesting habitat requirements has rarely been used in the neotropics and other tropical and subtropical forests, but focusing management attention on cavity nesters might address the most sensitive portion of the avian community as well as other species dependent on trees likely to hold cavities.	[Politi, N; Hunter, M] Univ Maine, Dept Wildlife Ecol, Orono, ME USA; [Politi, N; Rivera, L] Univ Nacl Jujuy, Fac Ciencias Agr, Catedra Desarrollo Sustentable & Biodiversidad, RA-4600 San Salvador De Jujuy, Argentina; [Politi, N] Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, San Salvador De Jujuy, Argentina	Politi, N (reprint author), Univ Maine, Dept Wildlife Ecol, Orono, ME USA.	natipoliti@yahoo.com.ar			1	73	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2012	NOV	21	12				3131	3155	25		016WH	CCC:000309550000008					2019-04-10J	Pywell, RFHeard, MSBradbury, RBHinsley, SNowakowski, MWalker, KJBullock, JM	Pywell, Richard F.; Heard, Matthew S.; Bradbury, Richard B.; Hinsley, Shelley; Nowakowski, Marek; Walker, Kevin J.; Bullock, James M.		Wildlife-friendly farming benefits rare birds, bees and plants	BIOLOGY LETTERS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	MULTIDISCIPLINARY	Science & Technology - Other Topics	agri-environment schemes, habitat restoration, eco-agriculture, ecosystem services	AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, RECENT DECLINES, FARMLAND BIRDS, FIELD MARGINS, LANDSCAPES, RESOURCES, DIVERSITY, ENGLAND	Agricultural intensification is a leading cause of global biodiversity loss, especially for threatened and near-threatened species. One widely implemented response is 'wildlife-friendly farming', involving the close integration of conservation and extensive farming practices within agricultural landscapes. However, the putative benefits from this controversial policy are currently either unknown or thought unlikely to extend to rare and declining species. Here, we show that new, evidence-based approaches to habitat creation on intensively managed farmland in England can achieve large increases in plant, bee and bird species. In particular, we found that habitat enhancement methods designed to provide the requirements of sensitive target biota consistently increased the richness and abundance of both rare and common species, with 10-fold to greater than 100-fold more rare species per sample area than generalized conventional conservation measures. Furthermore, targeting landscapes of high species richness amplified beneficial effects on the least mobile taxa: plants and bees. Our results provide the first unequivocal support for a national wildlife-friendly farming policy and suggest that this approach should be implemented much more extensively to address global biodiversity loss. However, to be effective, these conservation measures must be evidence-based, and developed using sound knowledge of the ecological requirements of key species.	[Pywell, RF; Heard, MS; Hinsley, S; Walker, KJ; Bullock, JM] NERC Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Wallingford OX10 8BB, Oxon, England; [Bradbury, RB] Royal Soc Protect Birds, Sandy SG19 2DL, Beds, England; [Nowakowski, M] Wildlife Farming Co, Bicester OX26 1UN, Oxon, England; [Walker, KJ] Bot Soc British Isles, Harrogate HG1 5DG, England	Pywell, RF (reprint author), NERC Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Wallingford OX10 8BB, Oxon, England.	rfp@ceh.ac.uk	Heard, Matthew/E-6743-2012; Bullock, James/F-9997-2011; Hinsley, Shelley/E-6790-2012; Pywell, Richard/E-8738-2010; Bradbury, Richard/	Pywell, Richard/0000-0001-6431-9959; Bradbury, Richard/0000-0002-1245-2763	1	162	ROYAL SOC	LONDON	6-9 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, LONDON SW1Y 5AG, ENGLAND	http://www.pubs.royalsoc.ac.uk	1744-9561		BIOL LETTERS	Biol. Lett.	2012	OCT	8	5				772	775	4		005ZP	CCC:000308789200024	22675140	Green Published, Bronze			2019-04-10J	Watson, SJTaylor, RSNimmo, DGKelly, LTClarke, MFBennett, AF	Watson, S. J.; Taylor, R. S.; Nimmo, D. G.; Kelly, L. T.; Clarke, M. F.; Bennett, A. F.		The influence of unburnt patches and distance from refuges on post-fire bird communities	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	fire, conservation, birds, refuge, mallee, biological legacies	FIRE MANAGEMENT, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, EASTERN BRISTLEBIRD, WILDFIRE, AUSTRALIA, RESPONSES, MALLEE, TIME, SUCCESSION, ABUNDANCE	Predicting the response of faunal communities to fire presents a challenge for land managers worldwide because the post-fire responses of species may vary between locations and fire events. Post-fire recovery can occur via nucleated recovery from in situ surviving populations or by colonization from ex situ populations. Fine-scale spatial patterns in the patchiness of fires and the proximity of burnt sites to source populations may contribute to both the variability in post-fire responses and the processes by which populations recover. We examined the avifauna at recently burnt sites within extensive semi-arid shrublands of south-eastern Australia, including 72 sites <?5 years since fire and 26 sites 10 years since fire. Study sites represented a gradient of increasing distance from unburnt vegetation (i.e. >?27 years since fire) and varied in the presence or absence of small (25900?m2) unburnt patches of vegetation. For sites <?5 years since fire, species richness was higher at sites closer to unburnt vegetation and at sites containing unburnt patches. These patterns were no longer evident at sites of 10 years since fire. The probability of occurrence of three of seven bird species modelled decreased with increasing distance to unburnt vegetation, but this pattern was evident only at sites burnt uniformly. One species was found almost exclusively at patchily burnt sites. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that proximity to unburnt vegetation enhances post-fire occupancy, and that colonization from ex situ populations is an important process for post-fire recovery of avifauna. Additionally, small unburnt patches enhance the rapid recovery of assemblages post-fire. These patterns are important for understanding the dynamics of post-fire population recovery. We recommend that management of fire for ecological purposes should explicitly consider the role that the spatial attributes of fires play in determining the post-fire community.	[Watson, SJ] Charles Sturt Univ, Inst Land Water & Soc, Albury, NSW 2640, Australia; [Watson, SJ; Nimmo, DG; Kelly, LT; Bennett, AF] Deakin Univ, Landscape Ecol Res Grp, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Burwood, Vic, Australia; [Taylor, RS; Clarke, MF] La Trobe Univ, Dept Zool, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kelly, LT] Univ Melbourne, Sch Bot, Parkville, Vic 3052, Australia	Watson, SJ (reprint author), Charles Sturt Univ, Inst Land Water & Soc, POB 789, Albury, NSW 2640, Australia.	siwatson@csu.edu.au	Watson, Simon/B-4232-2013; Kelly, Luke/	Watson, Simon/0000-0001-6063-7327; Kelly, Luke/0000-0002-3127-3111	2	70	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2012	OCT	15	5				499	507	9		014VA	CCC:000309402600012					2019-04-10J	Lowe, JPothier, DRompre, GSavard, JPL	Lowe, Jeovanna; Pothier, David; Rompre, Ghislain; Savard, Jean-Pierre L.		Long-term changes in bird community in the unmanaged post-fire eastern Quebec boreal forest	JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Boreal forests, Bird species richness, Species community, Chronosequence, Time since fire, Old-growth forests	VEGETATION STRUCTURE, ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT, FIRE, TREE, SUCCESSION, DIVERSITY, WILDFIRE, HABITAT, ASSEMBLAGES, SELECTION	Little information is available on long-term changes in bird communities following fire in the unmanaged forest. We have evaluated and compared bird species communities along two long-term chronosequences after fire (0 to > 200 years post-fire) in the eastern Quebec boreal forest, which is known for its long fire-return intervals. By characterizing forest habitat in stands of different ages (time since fire), we were able to model species richness and bird community characteristics in three habitat types: mature forests, forest-edge, and open-forests. Although bird species richness did not vary greatly, our results show changes in species composition following successional stages and highlight the need to protect the forest at all stages, especially old-growth, which provides a heterogeneous environment suitable for several species. Keeping a mosaic composed of all-age, fire-disturbed forests should facilitate the conservation of bird diversity in the eastern boreal forest.	[Lowe, J; Pothier, D; Rompre, G] Univ Laval, Ctr Etud Foret, Dept Sci Bois & Foret, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada; [Rompre, G] Wilkes Univ, Dept Biol & Hlth Sci, Wilkes Barre, PA 18766 USA; [Savard, JPL] Wildlife Res Sci & Technol, Quebec City, PQ G1V 4H5, Canada	Lowe, J (reprint author), Univ Laval, Ctr Etud Foret, Dept Sci Bois & Foret, Pavillon Abitibi Price,2405 Rue Terrasse, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada.	jeovannalowe@gmail.com			0	29	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0021-8375		J ORNITHOL	J. Ornithol.	2012	OCT	153	4				1113	1125	13		006MK	CCC:000308823100012					2019-04-10J	Smart, LSSwenson, JJChristensen, NLSexton, JO	Smart, L. S.; Swenson, J. J.; Christensen, N. L.; Sexton, J. O.		Three-dimensional characterization of pine forest type and red-cockaded woodpecker habitat by small-footprint, discrete-return lidar	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Forest structure, Lidar remote sensing, Longleaf pine, Pinus palustris, Loblolly pine, Red-cockaded woodpecker	BIRD SPECIES-DIVERSITY, OLD-GROWTH FORESTS, LASER SCANNER DATA, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, CANOPY STRUCTURE, LAND-COVER, HETEROGENEITY, LACUNARITY, PATTERN, DENSITY	Accurate measurement of forest canopy structure is critical for understanding forest-wildlife habitat relationships. Although most theory and application have been based on in situ measurements, imaging technologies such as Light Detection and Ranging (lidar) provide measurements that are both vertically accurate and horizontally extensive. We use small-footprint, multiple-return lidar from a state-wide dataset (1-m footprint, 0.11 point/m(2)) to characterize the vertical and horizontal structure of successional loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) and mature, fire-maintained longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) forests on the coastal plain of North Carolina, USA. The relationship between these characteristics and the federally-endangered red-cockaded woodpecker's (Picoides borealis, Vieillot) habitat preferences were assessed; as this species has a strong affinity for mature longleaf pine forests. Vertical structure was characterized by lidar-derived metrics (e.g., average and standard deviation of canopy height) and horizontal patterns of vertical structure were quantified by semivariograms and lacunarity analysis. Lidar metrics were compared with field measurements of stand structure and with woodpecker habitat use. We predicted woodpecker distribution using the Maxent species distribution modeling algorithm with elevation, landcover, and hydrography geospatial variables, with and without lidar-derived structural variables. Lidar successfully quantified canopy variation and differentiated between the structural characteristics of these two similar coniferous evergreen forest types (e.g. significant differences in maximum height, canopy cover, and size classes). Loblolly stands were found to have the tallest trees on average with a higher canopy cover. Both semivariograms and lacunarity analyses clearly differentiated between evergreen forest structural types (e.g. semivariogram range was 18.7 m for longleaf, 32.3 m for loblolly). By examining the immediate area around cavity nesting sites we found taller trees than those found across broader foraging sites. The species distribution model accurately predicted woodpecker distribution (tested with woodpecker presence, AUC >.85). The addition of lidar-derived variables improved the model's predictive power by 8% compared to the model based only on elevation, landcover, and hydrography environmental variables. We show that relatively low density lidar data are valuable for wildlife studies by characterizing and separating similar canopy types, describing different use zones (foraging vs. nesting), and for use in species distribution models. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Smart, LS; Swenson, JJ; Christensen, NL; Sexton, JO] Duke Univ, Nicholas Sch Environm, Durham, NC 27708 USA	Smart, LS (reprint author), NatureServe, 6114 Fayetteville Rd,Suite 109, Durham, NC 27713 USA.	Lindsey_Smart@NatureServe.org		Swenson, Jennifer J./0000-0002-2069-667X	1	96	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2012	OCT	281					100	110	11		002HQ	CCC:000308523100012					2019-04-10J	Simonson, WDAllen, HDCoomes, DA	Simonson, William D.; Allen, Harriet D.; Coomes, David A.		Use of an Airborne Lidar System to Model Plant Species Composition and Diversity of Mediterranean Oak Forests	CONSERVATION BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Mediterranean, oak forest, predictive modeling, remote sensing, vascular plants, bosque de roble, Mediterraneo, modelos predictivos, plantas vasculares, sensores remotos	INDIVIDUAL TREES, CANOPY STRUCTURE, LASER SCANNER, BIODIVERSITY, RICHNESS, CONSERVATION, FIRE, CLASSIFICATION, ASSEMBLAGES, VEGETATION	Airborne lidar is a remote-sensing tool of increasing importance in ecological and conservation research due to its ability to characterize three-dimensional vegetation structure. If different aspects of plant species diversity and composition can be related to vegetation structure, landscape-level assessments of plant communities may be possible. We examined this possibility for Mediterranean oak forests in southern Portugal, which are rich in biological diversity but also threatened. We compared data from a discrete, first-and-last return lidar data set collected for 31 plots of cork oak (Quercus suber) and Algerian oak (Quercus canariensis) forest with field data to test whether lidar can be used to predict the vertical structure of vegetation, diversity of plant species, and community type. Lidar- and field-measured structural data were significantly correlated (up to r= 0.85). Diversity of forest species was significantly associated with lidar-measured vegetation height (R2= 0.50, p < 0.001). Clustering and ordination of the species data pointed to the presence of 2 main forest classes that could be discriminated with an accuracy of 89% on the basis of lidar data. Lidar can be applied widely for mapping of habitat and assessments of habitat condition (e.g., in support of the European Species and Habitats Directive [92/43/EEC]). However, particular attention needs to be paid to issues of survey design: density of lidar points and geospatial accuracy of ground-truthing and its timing relative to acquisition of lidar data.	[Simonson, WD; Coomes, DA] Univ Cambridge, Dept Plant Sci, Forest Ecol & Conservat Grp, Cambridge CB2 3EA, England; [Allen, HD] Univ Cambridge, Dept Geog, Cambridge CB2 3EN, England	Simonson, WD (reprint author), Univ Cambridge, Dept Plant Sci, Forest Ecol & Conservat Grp, Cambridge CB2 3EA, England.	wds10@cam.ac.uk			1	60	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0888-8892		CONSERV BIOL	Conserv. Biol.	2012	OCT	26	5				840	850	11		001UB	CCC:000308484500010	22731687				2019-04-10J	Yao, JMurray, DBAdhikari, AWhite, JD	Yao, Jian; Murray, Darrel B.; Adhikari, Arjun; White, Joseph D.		Fire in a sub-humid woodland: The balance of carbon sequestration and habitat conservation	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Carbon sequestration, Fire, Golden-cheeked warbler, Habitat conservation, Public lands management, Woodland	PRESCRIBED FIRE, OAK FORESTS, EDWARDS PLATEAU, PINE FORESTS, ASHE JUNIPER, VEGETATION, MANAGEMENT, NITROGEN, STORAGE, BIOMASS	Public lands are often tasked with ecosystem restoration that may include fire as a management tool in order to foster the return of ecosystem composition, structure, or function to a previous state. In some ecosystems, such as woodlands, the role of fire is poorly understood because mixed-fire regimes complicate assessment of landscape level fire return intervals and successional pathways. Management of these public woodlands may be difficult due to the need to accomplish multiple objectives such as carbon (C) sequestration and wildlife conservation on properties with marginal productivity. To assess the role of fire in affecting various ecological processes and offer information for future wildland management decision-making, we measured C storage, vegetation composition, and habitat suitability for an endangered bird species (golden-cheeked warbler, Dendroica chrysoparia) in juniper-oak woodlands with documented past surface fires within Balcones Canyonlands National Wildlife Refuge. We found significantly different total aboveground biomass C with average values of 5.25, 6.86, and 9.18 kg m(-2) of C for 60 plots grouped into recent (<40 year), old (>= 40 year), and no fire treatments, respectively. Interpretation of fire for each plot was based on fire scar data derived from a previous tree-ring study for the refuge. We found fire significantly reduced site C primarily due to reduced tree density. We also found increased oak recruitment associated with fires that occurred in low summer precipitation years. Calculated habitat suitability index values for the golden-cheeked warbler did not significantly differ between groups. However, fire may have a dual effect on habitat suitability. While catastrophic wildfire can damage potential habitat and significantly reduce regional carbon storage, our study showed that moderate intensity fires in dense young juniper stands promotes tree species diversity, favorable for future habitat formation. We conclude that fire as a management focus, including use of prescribed burning and fuel treatments to reduce wildfire risk, may be implemented on a single conservation property to achieve multiple expected outcomes. However, this requires detailed ecological information regarding woody species composition and population structure to help assess legacy conditions that influence the interpretation of present woodland conditions and future projections given restoration efforts. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Yao, J; White, JD] Baylor Univ, Inst Ecol Earth & Environm Sci, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Murray, DB; Adhikari, A; White, JD] Baylor Univ, Dept Biol, Waco, TX 76798 USA	Yao, J (reprint author), Baylor Univ, Inst Ecol Earth & Environm Sci, 1 Bear Pl, Waco, TX 76798 USA.	Jian_Yao@baylor.edu; Darrel_Murray@baylor.edu; Arjun_Adhikari@baylor.edu; Joseph_D_White@baylor.edu			0	55	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2012	SEP	280					40	51	12		991HZ	CCC:000307693400006					2019-04-10J	Fornara, DATilman, D	Fornara, Dario A.; Tilman, David		Soil carbon sequestration in prairie grasslands increased by chronic nitrogen addition	ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biodiversity, C(3) grasses, C(4) grasses, ecosystem functioning, ecosystem services, fire, nitrogen deposition, root mass, soil carbon sequestration	PLANT FUNCTIONAL COMPOSITION, TEMPERATE FORESTS, DEPOSITION, FERTILIZATION, DECOMPOSITION, CONSEQUENCES, COMMUNITIES, DIVERSITY, STORAGE, IMPACT	Human-induced increases in nitrogen (N) deposition are common across many terrestrial ecosystems worldwide. Greater N availability not only reduces biological diversity, but also affects the biogeochemical coupling of carbon (C) and N cycles in soil ecosystems. Soils are the largest active terrestrial C pool and N deposition effects on soil C sequestration or release could have global importance. Here, we show that 27 years of chronic N additions to prairie grasslands increased C sequestration in mineral soils and that a potential mechanism responsible for this C accrual was an N-induced increase in root mass. Greater soil C sequestration followed a dramatic shift in plant community composition from native-species-rich C(4) grasslands to naturalized-species-rich C(3) grasslands, which, despite lower soil C gains per unit of N added, still acted as soil C sinks. Since both high plant diversity and elevated N deposition may increase soil C sequestration, but N deposition also decreases plant diversity, more research is needed to address the long-term implications for soil C storage of these two factors. Finally, because exotic C(3) grasses often come to dominate N-enriched grasslands, it is important to determine if such N-dependent soil C sequestration occurs across C(3) grasslands in other regions worldwide.	[Fornara, DA] Univ Ulster, Environm Sci Res Inst, Coleraine BT52 1SA, Londonderry, North Ireland; [Tilman, D] Univ Minnesota, Dept Ecol Evolut & Behav, St Paul, MN 55108 USA	Fornara, DA (reprint author), Univ Ulster, Environm Sci Res Inst, Coleraine BT52 1SA, Londonderry, North Ireland.	d.fornara@ulster.ac.uk	Fornara, Dario/J-3315-2013; Houlton, Benjamin/; Fornara, Dario/	Houlton, Benjamin/0000-0002-1414-0261; Fornara, Dario/0000-0002-5381-0803	10	201	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	0012-9658		ECOLOGY	Ecology	2012	SEP	93	9				2030	2036	7	10.1890/12-0292.1	016KO	CCC:000309517200007	23094375	Bronze			2019-04-10J	Fiedler, AKLandis, DAArduser, M	Fiedler, Anna K.; Landis, Douglas A.; Arduser, Michael		Rapid Shift in Pollinator Communities Following Invasive Species Removal	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	conservation, plant community, pollination, prairie fen, restoration	PLANT REPRODUCTION, POLLEN LIMITATION, UNITED-STATES, SEED SET, RESTORATION, CONSERVATION, BEES, DIVERSITY, HABITAT, FENS	Ecological restoration is increasingly used to reverse degradation of rare ecosystems and maintain biological diversity. Pollinator communities are critical to maintenance of plant diversity and, in light of recent pollinator loss, we tested whether removal of invasive glossy buckthorn (Frangula alnus L.) from portions of a prairie fen wetland altered plant and pollinator communities. We compared herbaceous plant, bee, and butterfly abundance, diversity, and species composition in buckthorn invaded, buckthorn removal, and uninvaded reference plots. Following restoration, we found striking differences in plant and pollinator abundance and species composition between restored, unrestored, and reference plots. Within 2 years of F. alnus removal, plant species diversity and composition in restored plots were significantly different than invaded plots, but also remained significantly lower than reference plots. In contrast, in the first growing season following restoration, bee and butterfly abundance, diversity, and composition were similar in restored and reference plots and distinct from invaded plots. Our findings indicate that a diverse community of mobile generalist pollinators rapidly re-colonizes restored areas of prairie fen, while the plant community may take longer to fully recover. This work implies that, in areas with intact pollinator metapopulations, restoration efforts will likely prevent further loss of mobile generalist pollinators and maintain pollination services. On the other hand, targeted restoration efforts will likely be required to restore populations of rare plants and specialist pollinators for which local and regional species pools may be lacking.	[Fiedler, AK; Landis, DA] Michigan State Univ, Dept Entomol, Ctr Integrated Plant Syst 204, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Arduser, M] Missouri Dept Conservat, St Charles, MO 63304 USA	Fiedler, AK (reprint author), Michigan State Univ, Dept Entomol, Ctr Integrated Plant Syst 204, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA.	fiedlerak@gmail.com			9	162	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2012	SEP	20	5				593	602	10		000PR	CCC:000308399600008					2019-04-10J	Benayas, JMRBullock, JM	Rey Benayas, Jose M.; Bullock, James M.		Restoration of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services on Agricultural Land	ECOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	agroforestry, financial support, land separation, land sharing, organic agriculture, reconciliation, secondary succession, tree plantations, woodland islets	NATURAL PEST-CONTROL, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, ENVIRONMENTAL HETEROGENEITY, SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, POLLINATION SERVICES, GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY, SPECIES RICHNESS, PLANT DIVERSITY, FOOD-PRODUCTION	Cultivation and cropping are major causes of destruction and degradation of natural ecosystems throughout the world. We face the challenge of maintaining provisioning services while conserving or enhancing other ecosystem services and biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. There is a range of possibilities within two types of intervention, namely "land sharing" and "land separation"; the former advocates the enhancement of the farmed environment, but the latter a separation between land designated for farming versus conservation. Land sharing may involve biodiversity-based agricultural practices, learning from traditional farming, changing from conventional to organic agriculture and from "simple" crops and pastures to agro-forestry systems, and restoring or creating specific elements to benefit wildlife and particular services without decreasing agricultural production. Land separation in the farmland context involves restoring or creating non-farmland habitat at the expense of field-level agricultural production-for example, woodland on arable land. Restoration by land sharing has the potential to enhance agricultural production, other ecosystem services and biodiversity at both the field and landscape scale; however, restoration by land separation would provide these benefits only at the landscape scale. Although recent debate has contrasted these approaches, we suggest they should be used in combination to maximize benefits. Furthermore, we suggest "woodland islets", an intermediate approach between land abandonment and farmland afforestation, for ecological restoration in extensive agricultural landscapes. This approach allows reconciliation of farmland production, conservation of values linked to cultural landscapes, enhancement of biodiversity, and provision of a range of ecosystem services. Beyond academic research, restoration projects within agricultural landscapes are essential if we want to halt environmental degradation and biodiversity loss.	[Benayas, JMR] Univ Alcala de Henares, Dept Ecol, Alcala De Henares 28871, Spain; [Bullock, JM] Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Wallingford OX10 8BB, Oxon, England	Benayas, JMR (reprint author), Univ Alcala de Henares, Dept Ecol, Alcala De Henares 28871, Spain.	josem.rey@uah.es	Bullock, James/F-9997-2011; Rey Benayas, Jose/C-3218-2011	Rey Benayas, Jose/0000-0002-2099-8512	14	447	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	1432-9840		ECOSYSTEMS	Ecosystems	2012	SEP	15	6				883	899	17		992GN	CCC:000307763700003					2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DWood, JMontague-Drake, RMichael, DCrane, MOkada, SMacGregor, CGibbons, P	Lindenmayer, David; Wood, Jeff; Montague-Drake, Rebecca; Michael, Damian; Crane, Mason; Okada, Sachiko; MacGregor, Chris; Gibbons, Phil		Is biodiversity management effective? Cross-sectional relationships between management, bird response and vegetation attributes in an Australian agri-environment scheme	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Management intervention, Agricultural landscapes, Temperate woodland, Bird conservation, Reduced grazing pressure, Vegetation condition	SOUTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, REMNANT VEGETATION, WOODLAND BIRDS, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY, RESTORATION, TREE, HETEROGENEITY, DISTURBANCE	Do sites managed under an agri-environment scheme support significantly more biodiversity than sites managed in accordance with traditional agricultural practices? This is a key question underpinning agri-environment schemes worldwide, including one that we report on here that has been established in south-eastern Australia. To address this question, we established a large-scale, blocked and replicated cross-sectional study comprising 104 sites in four key "management" classes: (1) Agricultural production sites characterized by traditional set-stocking grazing. (2) Short-term conversion sites in which investments to improve conservation had recently (<2 years ago) been made. (3) Long-term conversion sites where investments to improve conservation values were made >7 years ago. And (4) Traveling stock reserves (TSRs) which have traditionally been subject to limited vegetation clearing and grazing pressure over the past 150 years. Such TSRs are often considered 'benchmarks' of vegetation condition and biodiversity prior to European settlement.We identified significant (P < 0.001) differences between management classes and bird species richness (including the richness of bird species of conservation concern), with a gradient of increasing richness from production sites, short-term conversion sites, long-term conversion sites to TSRs. We also found significant (P < 0.001) differences in the composition of bird assemblages between management classes which followed a broadly similar gradient pattern to that identified for bird species richness. We also identified functional groups of birds associated with different management practices. In particular, small-bodied, non-seed eating and open-nesting bird species were significantly more likely to occur in TSRs than in production sites. We found that differences in bird species richness and assemblage composition could be explained by readily quantifiable relationships with vegetation structure and condition (i.e. native shrub cover, native ground ground cover, native plant species richness, percentage overstory regeneration, and the amount of bare ground).Our findings suggest that management intervention may shift some key characteristics of woodland vegetation typical of agricultural production sites toward those of "benchmark" TSRs and that these alterations in characteristics are, in turn, important for bird biota. Characteristics of particular importance include retention or improvement in the native shrub and sub-shrub layer and overstory regeneration. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Lindenmayer, D] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, ARC Ctr Excellent Environm Decis, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia; Australian Natl Univ, Natl Environm Res Program, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia	Lindenmayer, D (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, ARC Ctr Excellent Environm Decis, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	David.Lindenmayer@anu.edu.au; jeff.wood@anu.edu.au; becmd@westnet.com.au; michaeldamian@hotmail.com; masoncrane@yahoo.com; okada.sachiko@gmail.com; christopher.macgregor@anu.edu.au; phil.gibbons@anu.edu.au	Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088	2	49	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2012	AUG	152					62	73	12		983AI	CCC:000307088200008					2019-04-10J	Liu, ZHHe, HSYang, J	Liu, Zhihua; He, Hong S.; Yang, Jian		Emulating natural fire effects using harvesting in an eastern boreal forest landscape of northeast China	JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Fire disturbance, LANDIS, Landscape ecology, Management based on natural disturbance, Spatial heterogeneity	DISTURBANCE-BASED MANAGEMENT, ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, MIXEDWOOD FOREST, REGIMES, DYNAMICS, SIMULATION, QUEBEC, STAND, SILVICULTURE	Questions Efforts to emulate natural fire effects through harvesting have met with limited success due to insufficient consideration of variable fire severities and spatial heterogeneity of fire regimes (e.g. mean return interval and fire size) in boreal ecosystems. What is the relative importance of fire severity and spatial heterogeneity on tree species composition, age structure and spatial pattern? Location An eastern boreal forest landscape of northeast China, consisting of larch and birch forests. Methods We constructed a factorial design of forest management alternatives and conducted simulation experiments using a landscape disturbance and succession model, LANDIS. We used a management area delineation method to simulate spatial heterogeneity of fire regime and a silvicultural regeneration method to simulate variable fire severity. Results Management area delineation had a greater influence on tree species composition, age structure and spatial pattern of the boreal forests than the silvicultural regeneration method. The silvicultural regeneration method had more influence on the age structure of larch than birch, due to the variable severity of fire on larch. Conclusions Spatial heterogeneity of fire regime has a more important influence on ecosystem characteristics than fire severity in this eastern boreal landscape. Efforts to emulate natural fire effects through harvesting should first account for the effects of spatial heterogeneity of the fire regime. It is necessary to delineate the landscape into fire management units and incorporate variable fire severities in harvest prescriptions for each unit.	[Liu, ZH; He, HS; Yang, J] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Appl Ecol, State Key Lab Forest & Soil Ecol, Shenyang 110164, Peoples R China; [He, HS] Univ Missouri, Sch Nat Resources, Columbia, MO 65211 USA	He, HS (reprint author), Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Appl Ecol, State Key Lab Forest & Soil Ecol, Shenyang 110164, Peoples R China.	liuzh@iae.ac.cn; heh@missouri.edu; yangjian@iae.ac.cn	Liu, ZH/H-7536-2012; Yang, Jian/H-3169-2011; He, Hong S./	Liu, ZH/0000-0002-0086-5659; Yang, Jian/0000-0002-2170-589X; He, Hong S./0000-0002-3983-2512	3	44	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1100-9233		J VEG SCI	J. Veg. Sci.	2012	AUG	23	4				782	795	14		968EJ	CCC:000305959600017					2019-04-10J	Kuuluvainen, TGrenfell, R	Kuuluvainen, Timo; Grenfell, Russell		Natural disturbance emulation in boreal forest ecosystem management - theories, strategies, and a comparison with conventional even-aged management	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH-REVUE CANADIENNE DE RECHERCHE FORESTIERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences		SPRUCE BUDWORM OUTBREAKS, CANADIAN BOREAL, SPECIES COEXISTENCE, FIRE HISTORY, SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, ECOLOGICAL-SYSTEMS, SCALE DISTURBANCE, MIXEDWOOD FOREST, NORTHERN EUROPE	Natural disturbance emulation (NDE) has been proposed as a general approach to ecologically sustainable forest management. We reviewed the concepts, theories, and strategies related to NDE in boreal forest management. We also reviewed publications that discussed NDE in the boreal forest in general and those that specifically compared NDE-based management with conventional even-aged management. The papers generally focused on northern North America and landscape-scale wildfire as the main disturbance factor, whereas information from Eurasia was exclusively theoretical. Within this limited scope, NDE was generally found to have a positive effect on biodiversity in terms of forest structure and species diversity when compared with conventional even-aged management. Studies on timber supply and social implications of NDE were so few that they preclude generalizations. We conclude that the ecological and economic performance of NDE as a management approach still remains poorly examined. To advance the development of NDE, particular attention should be given to (1) augmenting the knowledge base on natural range of variability of unmanaged forest ecosystems and evaluating the validity of this information in a changing climate, (2) fostering multidisciplinary research with better integration of ecological theory to both integrative and analytical research on NDE, and (3) better integration of socioeconomic concerns, adaptive management schemes, and international collaboration into NDE initiatives.	[Kuuluvainen, T; Grenfell, R] Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland	Kuuluvainen, T (reprint author), Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, POB 27, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland.	Timo.Kuuluvainen@helsinki.fi			0	72	CANADIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING, NRC RESEARCH PRESS	OTTAWA	1200 MONTREAL ROAD, BUILDING M-55, OTTAWA, ON K1A 0R6, CANADA	http://www.nrcresearchpress.com	0045-5067		CAN J FOREST RES	Can. J. For. Res.-Rev. Can. Rech. For.	2012	JUL	42	7				1185	1203	19		976UY	CCC:000306612800002					2019-04-10J	Long, AMJensen, WEMatlack, RS	Long, Ashley M.; Jensen, William E.; Matlack, Raymond S.		Effects of Prescribed Burning on Avian Nest Survival in the Southern Great Plains	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	grassland birds, great plains, lark sparrow, mourning dove, nest survival, prescribed burning, shortgrass prairie, woody encroachment	TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, GRASSLAND BIRD, HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, SHORTGRASS PRAIRIE, RELATIVE ABUNDANCE, DESERT GRASSLAND, FIRE, PREDATION, MESQUITE, SUCCESS	Shrubs, such as mesquite (Prosopis spp.) and cholla (Opuntia spp.), now dominate fire-suppressed grasslands in southwestern North America. Responses of birds to prescribed burning of the shortgrass prairie in this region are poorly understood. We examined daily survival rates of mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) and lark sparrow (Chondestes grammacus) nests in an experimental landscape (4,811 ha) of spatially replicated, inter-annual fire frequencies (burning every 2 yr, 4 yr, or 10 yr) near Amarillo, Texas. Herbaceous habitat structure was most developed in infrequently burned plots, but shrub densities were less variable among the burn treatments. We modeled daily nest survival (DSR) against burn frequency, shrub density at nest sites, and nest stage (incubation or nestling). Daily survival of mourning dove nests was not well-related to any measured covariate, but lark sparrow DSR was negatively related to the duration of inter-annual burn frequency. In semiarid grasslands heavily inundated with shrubs, prescribed burning may positively influence the nest success of some bird species. (C) 2012 The Wildlife Society.	[Long, AM; Jensen, WE] Emporia State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Emporia, KS 66801 USA; [Matlack, RS] W Texas A& M Univ, Dept Life Earth & Environm Sci, Canyon, TX 79015 USA	Jensen, WE (reprint author), Emporia State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Campus Box 4050,1200 Commercial St, Emporia, KS 66801 USA.	wjensen1@emporia.edu			1	48	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2012	JUL	76	5				899	906	8		962WA	CCC:000305577000004					2019-04-10J	Ritter, CDAndretti, CBNelson, BW	Ritter, Camila D.; Andretti, Christian B.; Nelson, Bruce W.		Impact of Past Forest Fires on Bird Populations in Flooded Forests of the Cuini River in the Lowland Amazon	BIOTROPICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Amazon blackwater forest, birds, fires, point counts	TROPICAL FORESTS, SPECIES RICHNESS, ASSEMBLAGES, WILDFIRES, DIEBACK	Blackwater floodplain forests of the Rio Negro are susceptible to understory fires. Bird composition was distinct between burned and unburned floodplain forest but not between young (1218 yr) and old burns (>25 yr), indicating low resilience after fire. Forest regeneration is slow, with open grassy areas persisting >80 yr.	[Ritter, CD; Andretti, CB; Nelson, BW] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, BR-69060001 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil	Ritter, CD (reprint author), Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Ave Andre Araujo 2936, BR-69060001 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.	kmicaduarte@gmail.com			0	14	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0006-3606		BIOTROPICA	Biotropica	2012	JUL	44	4				449	453	5		967XK	CCC:000305941300002					2019-04-10J	McMahon, BJAnderson, ACarnus, THelden, AJKelly-Quinn, MMaki, ASheridan, HPurvis, G	McMahon, Barry J.; Anderson, Annette; Carnus, Tim; Helden, Alvin J.; Kelly-Quinn, Mary; Maki, Amel; Sheridan, Helen; Purvis, Gordon		Different bioindicators measured at different spatial scales vary in their response to agricultural intensity	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Agro-ecology, Indicator, Biodiversity, Livestock farming, Habitat heterogeneity, Agri-environment policy	PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, FARMLAND BIRDS, HABITAT HETEROGENEITY, IRISH FARMLAND, BIODIVERSITY, DIVERSITY, CONSERVATION, GRASSLAND, EUROPE, POPULATIONS	Ecologically, potential bioindicator taxa operate at different scales within agricultural ecosystems, and thereby provide a means to investigate the influence of changing management practice on biological diversity at different scales within the agro-ecosystem. Surveys of grassland plant species at field level, parasitoid Hymenoptera at the field and farm scale, and bird populations and habitats at farm scale were carried out on 119 grass-based farms across three regions in the Republic of Ireland. In addition, habitat richness and aquatic macroinvertebrates were quantified at landscape scale. Agricultural intensity on the surveyed farms was quantified by mean farm stocking rate, calculated as livestock units per ha (LU/ha), and generalised linear mixed models used to evaluate relationships between stocking rate and the incidence of chosen bioindicator groups. Field scale bioindicators (plant species richness and parasitoid taxon richness and abundance) were negatively associated with mean farm stocking rate. Over much of its observed range, mean farm stocking rate was positively associated with total bird species richness and abundance, and the species richness and abundance of farmland bird indicator species recorded in the winter season. However, these relationships were quadratic, and above a relatively high upper limit of 2.5-3.5 LU/ha, further increase in farm stocking rate had a negative influence. Results demonstrate that different bioindicators measured at different spatial scales vary in their response to agricultural intensity. The lack of a consistent bioindicator response to farm stocking rate suggests that within predominantly farmed regions, maximising biodiversity requires a careful targeting and monitoring with bioindicator taxa that are informative of influences at relevant operational scales. The insights provided may then be much more informative for the design and implementation of agri-environment measures that maximise biodiversity within farmed landscapes. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[McMahon, BJ; Anderson, A; Carnus, T; Helden, AJ; Sheridan, H; Purvis, G] Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Sch Agr & Food Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Helden, AJ] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Dept Life Sci, Anim & Environm Res Grp, Cambridge, England; [Kelly-Quinn, M; Maki, A] Univ Coll Dublin Belfield, UCD Sch Biol & Environm Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland	Sheridan, H (reprint author), Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Sch Agr & Food Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland.	helen.sheridan@ucd.ie	Carnus, Tim/E-1017-2013; McMahon, Barry John/	Carnus, Tim/0000-0002-3002-9969; McMahon, Barry John/0000-0003-3143-8075	4	101	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	1470-160X		ECOL INDIC	Ecol. Indic.	2012	JUL	18					676	683	8		932IQ	CCC:000303284500072					2019-04-10J	Rochlin, IJames-Pirri, MJAdamowicz, SCWolfe, RJCapotosto, PDempsey, MEIwanejko, TNinivaggi, DV	Rochlin, Ilia; James-Pirri, Mary-Jane; Adamowicz, Susan C.; Wolfe, Roger J.; Capotosto, Paul; Dempsey, Mary E.; Iwanejko, Thomas; Ninivaggi, Dominick V.		Integrated Marsh Management (IMM): a new perspective on mosquito control and best management practices for salt marsh restoration	WETLANDS ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Salt marsh restoration, Mosquito control, Open Marsh Water Management (OMWM), Phragmites australis, Spartina, Salt marsh nekton	WEST-NILE-VIRUS, EASTERN EQUINE ENCEPHALITIS, WATER MANAGEMENT, PHRAGMITES-AUSTRALIS, VECTOR COMPETENCE, TIDAL RESTRICTION, CULEX-SALINARIUS, NORTH-AMERICA, NEW-YORK, CONNECTICUT	Salt marsh management often embraces diverse goals, ranging from the restoration of degraded marshes through re-introduction of tidal flow to the control of salt marsh mosquito production by altering marsh surface topography through Open Water Marsh Management (OMWM). However, rarely have these goals been incorporated in one project. Here we present the concept of Integrated Marsh Management (IMM), which combines the best management practices of salt marsh restoration and OMWM. Although IMM offers a comprehensive approach to ecological restoration and mosquito control, research evaluating this concept's practical implementations has been inadequate. A long-term IMM project at Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge located in a highly urbanized watershed on Long Island, New York, USA was designed to fill this knowledge gap. A combination of restoration and OMWM techniques was employed at two treatment marshes, the results monitored before and after alterations, and compared to two adjacent control marshes. The treatment marshes experienced decreased mosquito production, reduced cover of the invasive common reed (Phragmites australis), expansion of native marsh vegetation, increased killifish and estuarine nekton species abundance, as well as increased avian species diversity and waterbird abundance. This demonstration project validated the IMM conceptual approach and may serve as a case study for similar IMM projects in the future.	[Rochlin, I; Iwanejko, T; Ninivaggi, DV] Suffolk Cty Dept Publ Works, Div Vector Control, Yaphank, NY 11980 USA; [James-Pirri, MJ] Univ Rhode Isl, Grad Sch Oceanog, Narragansett, RI 02882 USA; [Adamowicz, SC] USFWS, Rachel Carson Natl Wildlife Refuge, Wells, ME 04090 USA; [Wolfe, RJ; Capotosto, P] Connecticut Dept Energy & Environm Protect, Wetlands Habitat & Mosquito Management Program, Wildlife Div, North Franklin, CT 06254 USA; [Dempsey, ME] Suffolk Cty Dept Environm & Energy, Yaphank, NY 11980 USA	Rochlin, I (reprint author), Suffolk Cty Dept Publ Works, Div Vector Control, 335 Yaphank Ave, Yaphank, NY 11980 USA.	ilia.rochlin@suffolkcountyny.gov			4	49	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0923-4861		WETL ECOL MANAG	Wetl. Ecol. Manag.	2012	JUN	20	3			SI	219	232	14		970LK	CCC:000306130200005					2019-04-10J	Santana, JPorto, MGordinho, LReino, LBeja, P	Santana, Joana; Porto, Miguel; Gordinho, Luis; Reino, Luis; Beja, Pedro		Long-term responses of Mediterranean birds to forest fuel management	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	disturbance ecology, ecological succession, fire risk, forest management, frugivores, landscape mosaics, Mediterranean bird assemblages	LAND ABANDONMENT, OAK FORESTS, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPES, HABITAT, FIRE, COMMUNITIES, SUCCESSION, PRINCIPLES, DIVERSITY	1. Mechanical management of forest fuels is increasingly used in the Euro-Mediterranean region in response to the abandonment of traditional agroforestry and the concurrent increase in fire hazard. Although fuel management may have positive side effects for biodiversity, its long-term impacts remain largely unknown. 2. We used a 70-year post-management chronosequence to investigate the influence of time since fuel management and management frequency on bird assemblages in cork oak Quercus suber forests. 3. Fuel management strongly affected bird species richness, abundances and assemblage composition, with rapid changes often occurring during the first 1020 years, followed in the next decades by a slow convergence to pre-management levels. 4. In winter, overall species richness and abundance, and that of frugivores and shrub foragers, were negatively affected by recent and recurrent management, only recovering in stands unmanaged for >50 years. In spring, insectivore abundance and the richness and abundance of shrub foragers declined immediately following management, increased to a maximum about 20 years later, and declined thereafter. Breeding granivores and ground foragers were the only groups that benefitted from fuel management. There were no overall effects on species of conservation concern, although a few species with unfavourable status benefitted from fuel management. 5. Synthesis and applications. Our study confirmed that mechanical fuel management has positive effects on some early-successional bird species of conservation concern, although its effects were limited. These benefits should be compared with the strong negative impacts on key bird species such as wintering frugivores, which play a pivotal role in ecosystems by promoting seed dispersal. To reconcile the positive and negative aspects, fuel management should be used to create heterogeneous mosaics of forest patches encompassing a range of sizes (10100 ha) and successional stages of understorey vegetation, including stands undisturbed for >50 years. This management strategy will likely maintain conditions for a wide range of species with contrasting ecological requirements while also reducing fire hazard.	[Santana, J; Gordinho, L; Reino, L; Beja, P] Univ Porto, CIBIO, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, P-4485601 Vairao, Portugal; [Porto, M] Univ Lisbon, Dept Biol Vegetal, Fac Ciencias, Ctr Biol Ambiental, P-1749016 Lisbon, Portugal; [Gordinho, L] ERENA, P-1900392 Lisbon, Portugal	Beja, P (reprint author), Univ Porto, CIBIO, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Campus Agrario Vairao, P-4485601 Vairao, Portugal.	pbeja@cibio.up.pt	Gordinho, Luis/C-9164-2009; Reino, Luis/A-9261-2008; Beja, Pedro/A-7851-2008; Porto, Miguel/L-7365-2013; Santana, Joana/C-5941-2009	Gordinho, Luis/0000-0003-0413-6346; Reino, Luis/0000-0002-9768-1097; Beja, Pedro/0000-0001-8164-0760; Porto, Miguel/0000-0001-7640-0623; Santana, Joana/0000-0002-4100-8012	0	40	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2012	JUN	49	3				632	643	12		950PF	CCC:000304660500013					2019-04-10J	Rost, JClavero, MBrotons, LPons, P	Rost, Josep; Clavero, Miguel; Brotons, Lluis; Pons, Pere		The effect of postfire salvage logging on bird communities in Mediterranean pine forests: the benefits for declining species	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	colonization, conservation, disturbance, fire, forest management, open-habitat birds, wood harvesting	BREEDING AVIFAUNA, LANDSCAPE CHANGES, UNITED-STATES, MANAGEMENT, FIRE, ASSEMBLAGES, VEGETATION, WILDFIRES, CONSERVATION, ABANDONMENT	1. Postfire salvage logging is the most commonly applied forestry practice in burned forests world-wide, mainly for economic reasons. However, it strongly affects bird communities and is generally considered to be detrimental for bird conservation. In Europe, many open-habitat species are currently declining owing to land use changes. Wildfires, which are common disturbances in the Mediterranean Basin, can create suitable habitat for these species but the effect of postfire salvage logging on bird communities is unknown. 2. We surveyed breeding birds in two burned secondary pine forests from the western Mediterranean Basin and analysed the effect of salvage logging and vegetation regeneration as determinants of individual species and community parameters. We used a pseudoexperimental before-after-control-impact approach to study the changes in the bird community during the first three springs after fire. 3. Most bird species were affected by salvage logging (measured by snag density), a relationship that was positive for forest birds and negative for open-habitat species. Species linked to shrub and edge habitats were positively affected by vegetation regrowth. Bird communities in logged areas held more species of conservation concern than those in unlogged areas. Species richness and overall density tended to decrease from the first to the second year after fire and to increase from the second to the third. 4. Salvage logging benefits a number of open-habitat species, although its effect on bird conservation depends strongly on the specific threats that birds face in each region or ecosystem. 5. Synthesis and applications. In the Mediterranean Basin, some postfire salvage logging of pine forests can be compatible with bird conservation. We recommend that managers retain some standing dead trees during logging operations and that logged forest is interspersed with unlogged stands. This will provide suitable habitat for the widest range of species.	[Rost, J; Pons, P] Univ Girona, Dept Ciencies Ambientals, Girona 17071, Catalonia, Spain; [Clavero, M] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, Dept Conservat Biol, Seville 41092, Spain; [Clavero, M; Brotons, L] Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Area Biodiversitat, Solsona 25280, Catalonia, Spain; [Brotons, L] Autonomous Univ Barcelona, CREAF, Bellaterra, Catalonia, Spain	Rost, J (reprint author), Univ Girona, Dept Ciencies Ambientals, Campus Montilivi, Girona 17071, Catalonia, Spain.	josep.rost@gmail.com	CSIC, EBD Donana/C-4157-2011; Pons, Pere/B-9472-2008; Clavero, Miguel/A-9040-2015; Brotons, Lluis/D-1570-2009; Rost, Josep/M-2295-2014	CSIC, EBD Donana/0000-0003-4318-6602; Pons, Pere/0000-0002-2196-5544; Clavero, Miguel/0000-0002-5186-0153; Brotons, Lluis/0000-0002-4826-4457; Rost, Josep/0000-0003-4053-5141	4	59	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2012	JUN	49	3				644	651	8		950PF	CCC:000304660500014					2019-04-10J	Andreu, AGShea, DParresol, BROttmar, RD	Andreu, Anne G.; Shea, Dan; Parresol, Bernard R.; Ottmar, Roger D.		Evaluating fuel complexes for fire hazard mitigation planning in the southeastern United States	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Fuel characteristics, Surface fire behavior, Fuel reduction, Fuel load, Fuel Characteristic Classification System, Southeastern United States	CHARACTERISTIC CLASSIFICATION-SYSTEM, RED-COCKADED WOODPECKER, LONGLEAF PINE FORESTS, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, ECOSYSTEM, BEHAVIOR, HABITAT	Fire hazard mitigation planning requires an accurate accounting of fuel complexes to predict potential fire behavior and effects of treatment alternatives. In the southeastern United States, rapid vegetation growth coupled with complex land use history and forest management options requires a dynamic approach to fuel characterization. In this study we assessed potential surface fire behavior with the Fuel Characteristic Classification System (FCCS), a tool which uses inventoried fuelbed inputs to predict fire behavior.Using inventory data from 629 plots established in the upper Atlantic Coastal Plain, South Carolina, we constructed FCCS fuelbeds representing median fuel characteristics by major forest type and age class. With a dry fuel moisture scenario and 6.4 km h(-1) midflame wind speed, the FCCS predicted moderate to high potential fire hazard for the majority of the fuelbeds under study. To explore fire hazard under potential future fuel conditions, we developed fuelbeds representing the range of quantitative inventory data for fuelbed components that drive surface fire behavior algorithms and adjusted shrub species composition to represent 30% and 60% relative cover of highly flammable shrub species. Results indicate that the primary drivers of surface fire behavior vary by forest type, age and surface fire behavior rating. Litter tends to be a primary or secondary driver in most forest types. In comparison to other surface fire contributors, reducing shrub loading results in reduced flame lengths most consistently across forest types. FCCS fuelbeds and the results from this project can be used for fire hazard mitigation planning throughout the southern Atlantic Coastal Plain where similar forest types occur. The approach of building simulated fuelbeds across the range of available surface fuel data produces sets of incrementally different fuel characteristics that can be applied to any dynamic forest types in which surface fuel conditions change rapidly. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Andreu, AG] Univ Washington, Sch Forest Resources, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Shea, D] US Forest Serv, USDA, New Ellenton, SC 29809 USA; [Parresol, BR] US Forest Serv, USDA, So Res Stn, Asheville, NC 28804 USA; [Ottmar, RD] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific NW Res Stn, Seattle, WA 98103 USA	Andreu, AG (reprint author), Univ Washington, Sch Forest Resources, Box 352100, Seattle, WA 98195 USA.	agandreu@u.washington.edu			0	20	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2012	JUN	273				SI	4	16	13		930WX	CCC:000303176500002					2019-04-10J	Dudley, JGSaab, VAHollenbeck, JP	Dudley, Jonathan G.; Saab, Victoria A.; Hollenbeck, Jeffrey P.		FORAGING-HABITAT SELECTION OF BLACK-BACKED WOODPECKERS IN FOREST BURNS OF SOUTHWESTERN IDAHO	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Black-backed Woodpecker, foraging habitat selection, Idaho, Picoides arcticus, remote sensing, resource-selection probability function, wildfire	EASTERN BOREAL FOREST, BARK BEETLES, 3-TOED WOODPECKERS, PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, NORTHERN ARIZONA, CONIFER FORESTS, HOME-RANGE, PINE, ECOLOGY, FIRE	We examined foraging-habitat selection of Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) in burned forests of southwestern Idaho during 2000 and 2002 (6 and 8 years following wildfire). This woodpecker responds positively to large-scale fire disturbances and may be at risk from logging and post-fire management. With 100 radio-locations of four adult males, we used resource-selection probability functions in logistic form in an information-theoretic framework to model the Black-backed Woodpecker's selection of foraging habitat at fine and coarse spatial scales. Fine-scale data included characteristics of the foraging tree (tree level) and local habitat surrounding foraging trees (plot level, 0.04 ha), whereas coarse-scale data (224-778 ha) included patch characteristics within home ranges. Model selection by Akaike's information criterion identified a multi-scale model containing tree- and plot-level covariates, and their interaction, as the best model to characterize foraging trees. The positive effect of interaction between foraging-tree diameter and plot-level tree density suggested that foraging Black-backed Woodpeckers select both patches with dense trees and larger-diameter trees. Fire severity was not important, possibly because of the time since fire and the birds' habit of foraging on recently dead trees in adjacent unburned forests. Salvage logging that retains large-diameter trees in clumped distributions is most likely to provide long-term foraging habitat for Black-backed Woodpeckers in dry coniferous forests of the interior western U.S. Following wildfire, conservation of forest patches containing weakened trees may extend the suitability of habitat for foraging Black-backed Woodpeckers by up to 8 years.	[Dudley, JG] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Boise, ID 83702 USA; [Saab, VA] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Hollenbeck, JP] USGS Forest & Rangelands Ecosyst Sci Ctr, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA	Dudley, JG (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, 322 E Front St,Suite 401, Boise, ID 83702 USA.	jdudley@fs.fed.us			2	57	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2012	MAY	114	2				348	357	10		955TE	CCC:000305043000012					2019-04-10J	Reid, JLHarris, JBCZahawi, RA	Reid, J. Leighton; Harris, J. Berton C.; Zahawi, Rakan A.		Avian Habitat Preference in Tropical Forest Restoration in Southern Costa Rica	BIOTROPICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	abandoned pasture, foraging guild, habitat structure, nucleation, old growth forest, proportional similarity, secondary forest, tree plantation	SEED RAIN, FORAGING BEHAVIOR, BIRD COMMUNITIES, DEGRADED LANDS, TREE ISLANDS, PATCH SIZE, CONSERVATION, SUCCESSION, CHRONOSEQUENCE, CONSEQUENCES	An important question for tropical forest restoration is whether degraded lands can be actively managed to attract birds. We censused birds and measured vegetation structure at 27 stations in young (69-yr old) actively and passively restored pasture and old growth forest at Las Cruces Biological Station in southern Costa Rica. During 481 10-min point counts, we detected a high diversity186 speciesof birds using the restoration area. Surprisingly, species richness and detection frequency did not differ among habitats, and proportional similarity of bird assemblages to old growth forest did not differ between restoration treatments. Bird detection frequency was instead explained by exotic grass cover and understory stem densityvegetation structures that were not strongly impacted by active restoration. The similarity of bird assemblages in actively and passively restored forest may be attributed to differential habitat preferences within and among feeding guilds, low structural contrast between treatments, or the effect of nucleation from actively restored plots into passively restored areas. Rapid recovery of vegetation in this recently restored site is likely due to its proximity to old growth forest and the lack of barriers to effective seed dispersal. Previous restoration studies in highly binary environments (i.e., open pasture vs. tree plantation) have found strong differences in bird abundance and richness. Our data contradict this trend, and suggest that tropical restoration ecologists should carefully consider: (1) when the benefits of active restoration outweigh the cost of implementation; and (2) which avian guilds should be used to measure restoration success given differential responses to habitat structure. Foreign language abstract is available in the online version of this article.	[Reid, JL] Univ Calif Santa Cruz, Dept Environm Studies, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 USA; [Harris, JBC] Univ Adelaide, Inst Environm, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia; [Harris, JBC] Univ Adelaide, Sch Earth & Environm Sci, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia; [Zahawi, RA] Org Trop Studies, San Vito De Coto Brus, Costa Rica	Reid, JL (reprint author), Univ Calif Santa Cruz, Dept Environm Studies, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 USA.	jlreid@slugmail.ucsc.edu	Zahawi, Rakan/N-1028-2014	Zahawi, Rakan/0000-0002-5678-2967	2	82	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0006-3606		BIOTROPICA	Biotropica	2012	MAY	44	3				350	359	10		935CM	CCC:000303496500010					2019-04-10J	Ellis, TMKroll, AJBetts, MG	Ellis, Tana M.; Kroll, Andrew J.; Betts, Matthew G.		Early seral hardwood vegetation increases adult and fledgling bird abundance in Douglas-fir plantations of the Oregon Coast Range, USA	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences		MANAGED FOREST PLANTATIONS, PACIFIC-NORTHWEST, COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, HABITAT SELECTION, SPECIES RICHNESS, SITE SELECTION, BIODIVERSITY, LANDSCAPE, CONSERVATION, DENSITY	Recent evidence suggests that population declines of bird species associated with early-successional forest conditions may be associated with reduced quality of breeding habitat. Increasing intensity of forest management on private lands and decreased harvest rates on federal lands in the Pacific Northwest, USA, have resulted in a loss of diverse young forest stands, typically called early seral forest. Previous studies suggest that the amount of early seral broadleaf cover within conifer forests is linked to the composition of foliage-gleaning bird communities. However, information regarding productivity and juvenile use of post-breeding habitat in highly modified plantation habitat is lacking. We examined the relationship between vegetation structure resulting from intensive forest management practices and the abundance of five species of leaf-gleaning, neotropical migrants: orange-crowned warbler (Oreothlypis celata (Say, 1823)), Wilson's warbler (Wilsonia pusilla (A. Wilson, 1811)), MacGillivray's warbler (Oporornis tolmiei (J.K. Townsend, 1839)), Swainson's thrush (Catharus ustulatus (Nuttall, 1840)), and black-headed grosbeak (Pheucticus melanocephalus (Swainson, 1827)). All species, except MacGillivray's warbler, showed positive associations with the amount of early seral hardwood cover as fledglings, breeding adults, or both. However, the relative magnitude of these associations varied, suggesting that other factors may also have influenced avian responses. Abundances of breeding pairs and young are likely to show positive responses to management practices that increase early seral hardwood cover in regenerating stands. If adopted at landscape and regional scales, such practices may positively influence population trends of several declining bird species.	[Ellis, TM; Betts, MG] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Kroll, AJ] Timberlands Technol, Federal Way, WA 98063 USA	Betts, MG (reprint author), Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Ecosyst & Soc, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.	matthew.betts@oregonstate.edu			2	24	CANADIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING, NRC RESEARCH PRESS	OTTAWA	65 AURIGA DR, SUITE 203, OTTAWA, ON K2E 7W6, CANADA	http://www.nrcresearchpress.com	0045-5067		CAN J FOREST RES	Can. J. For. Res.	2012	MAY	42	5				918	933	16		934HP	CCC:000303435200010					2019-04-10J	Geerts, SMalherbe, SDTPauw, A	Geerts, Sjirk; Malherbe, Sarel D. T.; Pauw, Anton		Reduced flower visitation by nectar-feeding birds in response to fire in Cape fynbos vegetation, South Africa	JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Chasmanthe, Nectarinia, Promerops cafer, Sugarbird, Sunbird	CONSERVATION	Nectar-feeding birds are important pollinators in fire-prone regions of the world, but the impact of fires on these bird communities has seldom been studied. Nectar-feeding bird communities were censused during peak flowering, before and after fire in the Cape fynbos of South Africa. The abundance and species richness of nectar-feeding birds decreased at all sites. In a controlled experiment, two common bird-pollinated plants, which flower profusely after a fire, were presented in floral arrays in burnt and unburnt vegetation. Birds visited flowers only in the unburnt areas. The results are surprising given the large number of bird-pollinated plants that have fire-stimulated flowering.	[Geerts, S] Univ Stellenbosch, Dept Bot & Zool, Ctr Invas Biol, ZA-7602 Matieland, South Africa	Geerts, S (reprint author), Kirstenbosch Natl Bot Gardens, S African Natl Biodivers Inst, Claremont, South Africa.	sjirk@sun.ac.za	Pauw, Anton/A-6126-2008; Geerts, Sjirk/B-9659-2011; Pauw, Anton/; Geerts, Sjirk/	Pauw, Anton/0000-0002-4012-648X; Geerts, Sjirk/0000-0003-0149-2783	3	34	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0021-8375		J ORNITHOL	J. Ornithol.	2012	APR	153	2				297	301	5		951QI	CCC:000304734700006					2019-04-10J	Magrach, ALarrinaga, ARSantamaria, L	Magrach, Ainhoa; Larrinaga, Asier R.; Santamaria, Luis		Effects of Matrix Characteristics and Interpatch Distance on Functional Connectivity in Fragmented Temperate Rainforests	CONSERVATION BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	ecological connectivity, intervening matrix, structural connectivity	PATCH ISOLATION METRICS, SEED DISPERSAL, LANDSCAPE CONNECTIVITY, HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, SPATIAL ECOLOGY, SOUTHERN CHILE, ISLAND, CONFIGURATION, POLLINATORS, OCCUPANCY	The connectivity of remnant patches of habitat may affect the persistence of species in fragmented landscapes. We evaluated the effects of the structural connectivity of forest patches (i.e., distance between patches) and matrix class (land-cover type) on the functional connectivity of 3 bird species (the White-crested Elaenia [Elaenia albiceps], the Green-backed Firecrown Hummingbird [Sephanoides sephaniodes], and the Austral Thrush [Turdus falklandii]). We measured functional connectivity as the rate at which each species crossed from one patch to another. We also evaluated whether greater functional connectivity translated into greater ecological connectivity (dispersal of fruit and pollen) by comparing among forest patches fruit set of a plant pollinated by hummingbirds and abundance of seedlings and adults of 2 plants with bird- and wind-dispersed seeds. Interpatch distance was strongly associated with functional connectivity, but its effect was not independent of matrix class. For one of the bird-dispersed plants, greater functional connectivity for White-crested Elaenias and Austral Thrushes (both frugivores) was associated with higher densities of this plant. The lack of a similar association for the wind-dispersed species suggests this effect is linked to the dispersal vector. The abundance of the hummingbird-pollinated species was not related to the presence of hummingbirds. Interpatch distance and matrix class affect animal movement in fragmented landscapes and may have a cascading effect on the distribution of some animal-dispersed species. On the basis of our results, we believe effort should be invested in optimizing patch configuration and modifying the matrix so as to mitigate the effects of patch isolation in fragmented landscapes.	[Magrach, A; Larrinaga, AR; Santamaria, L] Mediterranean Inst Adv Studies IMEDEA CSIC UIB, E-07190 Mallorca, Balearic Island, Spain	Magrach, A (reprint author), Mediterranean Inst Adv Studies IMEDEA CSIC UIB, C Miquel Marques 21, E-07190 Mallorca, Balearic Island, Spain.	ainhoamagrach@hotmail.com	Magrach, Ainhoa/B-1038-2012; Santamaria, Luis/C-1438-2012; Larrinaga, Asier R./B-3826-2013	Magrach, Ainhoa/0000-0003-2155-7556; Santamaria, Luis/0000-0002-5072-2912; Larrinaga, Asier R./0000-0001-6813-8784	0	99	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0888-8892		CONSERV BIOL	Conserv. Biol.	2012	APR	26	2				238	247	10		914VO	CCC:000301981100007	22443129				2019-04-10J	Kim, TNHolt, RD	Kim, Tania N.; Holt, Robert D.		The direct and indirect effects of fire on the assembly of insect herbivore communities: examples from the Florida scrub habitat	OECOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Disturbance, Structural equation modeling, Community assembly, Oak-scrub	TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE, PRESCRIBED FIRE, PLANT-QUALITY, GRASSHOPPER ASSEMBLAGES, NATURAL DISTURBANCE, ARTHROPOD DIVERSITY, POPULATION-DENSITY, STAND STRUCTURE, NORTH-AMERICA	Disturbance is a major source of spatial and temporal heterogeneity. In fire-maintained systems, disturbance by fire is often used as a management tool to increase biological diversity, restore degraded habitats, and reduce pest outbreaks. Much attention has been given to how plant communities recover from fire, but relatively few studies have examined post-fire responses of higher order species, such as insect herbivores. Because dynamic feedbacks occur between plants and their consumers, which can in turn influence the response of the entire ecosystem, incorporating higher trophic level responses into our understanding of the effects of fire is essential. In this study, we used structural equation modeling (SEM) to tease apart the direct and indirect effects of fire on insect herbivore assemblages found on three common oak species in the Florida scrub (Quercus inopina, Q. chapmanii, and Q. geminata). We investigated how fire affected herbivore abundance, richness, and community composition both directly and indirectly through environmental heterogeneity at different spatial scales (e.g., leaf quality, plant architecture, and habitat structure). We also investigated how seasonality and landscape heterogeneity influenced post-fire responses of insect herbivores and whether fire effects on herbivore assemblages varied among different host plants. Our general findings were that fire effects were (1) largely indirect, mediated through habitat structure (although direct fire effects were observed on Q. inopina herbivores), (2) non-linear through time due to self-thinning processes occurring in the scrub habitat, and (3) varied according to herbivore assemblage as a result of differences in the composition of species in each herbivore community. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive study to examine how fire influences the assembly of insect herbivore communities through both direct and indirect pathways and at multiple spatial scales.	[Kim, TN] Florida State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Kim, TN; Holt, RD] Univ Florida, Dept Biol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA	Kim, TN (reprint author), Florida State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, 319 Stadium Dr, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA.	taniakim@bio.fsu.edu			3	66	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0029-8549		OECOLOGIA	Oecologia	2012	APR	168	4				997	1012	16		909YR	CCC:000301604200011	21987265				2019-04-10J	Halpern, CBHaugo, RDAntos, JAKaas, SSKilanowski, AL	Halpern, Charles B.; Haugo, Ryan D.; Antos, Joseph A.; Kaas, Sheena S.; Kilanowski, Allyssa L.		Grassland restoration with and without fire: evidence from a tree-removal experiment	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	ecological thresholds, ecosystem conversion, fire effects, forest encroachment, grassland dynamics, meadow restoration, plant diversity, tree-herb interactions, tree invasions	OREGON COAST RANGE, PACIFIC-NORTHWEST, MONTANE MEADOW, ECOLOGICAL THRESHOLDS, CONIFER ENCROACHMENT, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, PLANT SUCCESSION, SPATIAL-PATTERNS, SHRUB EXPANSION, CHAPARRAL SOILS	Forest encroachment threatens the biological diversity of grasslands globally. Positive feedbacks can reinforce the process, affecting soils and ground vegetation, ultimately leading to replacement of grassland by forest species. We tested whether restoration treatments (tree removal, with or without fire) reversed effects of nearly two centuries of encroachment by Abies grandis and Pinus contorta into dry, montane meadows in the Cascade Range, Oregon, USA. In nine, 1-ha plots containing a patchy mosaic of meadow openings and forests of varying age (20 to > 140 yr), we compared three. treatments affecting the ground vegetation: control (no trees removed), unburned (trees removed, slash burned in piles leaving 90% of the area unburned), and burned (trees removed, slash broadcast burned). We quantified changes over 3-4 years in soils, abundance and richness of species with differing habitat associations (meadow, forest, and ruderal), and recruitment of conifers. Except for a transient increase in available N (especially in burn scars), effects of burning on soils were minimal due, in part, to mixing by gophers. Tree removal greatly benefited meadow species at the expense of forest herbs. Cover and richness of meadow species increased by 47% and 38% of initial values in unburned plots, but changed minimally in burned plots. In contrast, cover and richness of forest herbs declined by 44% and 26% in unburned plots and by 79% and 58% in burned plots. Ruderal species and conifer seedlings were uncommon in both treatments. Although vegetation was consumed beneath burn piles, meadow species recovered significantly after three years. Long-term tree presence did not preclude recovery of meadow species; in fact, colonization was greater in older than in younger forests. In sum, temporal trends were positive for most indicators, suggesting strong potential for restoration. Contrary to conventional wisdom, tree removal without fire may be sufficient to shift the balance from forest to meadow species. In meadows characterized by historically infrequent fire, small-scale disturbances and competitive interactions may be more critical to ecosystem maintenance and restoration. Managers facing the worldwide phenomenon of tree invasion should critically evaluate the ecological vs. operational need for fire in ecosystem restoration.	[Halpern, CB; Haugo, RD] Univ Washington, Sch Forest Resources, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Antos, JA] Univ Victoria, Dept Biol, Victoria, BC V8W 3N5, Canada; [Kilanowski, AL] Florida State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA	Halpern, CB (reprint author), Univ Washington, Sch Forest Resources, Box 352100, Seattle, WA 98195 USA.	chalpern@uw.edu			1	83	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2012	MAR	22	2				425	441	17	10.1890/11-1061.1	921ZP	CCC:000302516900005	22611845				2019-04-10J	Gharehaghaji, MShabani, AAFeghhi, JDanehkar, AKaboli, MAshrafi, S	Gharehaghaji, Maryam; Shabani, Afshin Alizadeh; Feghhi, Jahangir; Danehkar, Afshin; Kaboli, Mohammad; Ashrafi, Sohrab		Effects of landscape context on bird species abundance of tree fall gaps in a temperate deciduous forest of Northern Iran	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Forest gap, Natural disturbance, Breeding bird abundance, Bird richness, Landscape context, Hyrcanian forest	BOTTOMLAND FOREST, HABITAT STRUCTURE, HARDWOOD FOREST, PARUS-MAJOR, GREAT TITS, SELECTION, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITY, ECOLOGY, DISTRIBUTIONS	Tree fall gaps caused by natural disturbances are a major source of heterogeneity in intact forests. Bird species are known as ecological indicators, reflecting landscape level changes. Yet, the role of landscape context in bird species abundance within small gaps is not fully addressed. We examined the difference between avian richness and abundance within tree fall gaps and closed canopy forest areas in Kheyrud forest, located on the east of Noshahr Township, Mazandaran province in Iran as a representation of Hyrcanian forest. Breeding bird census was taken in 20 selected gaps (0.1-0.4 ha) and 250 m from the center of each gap known as controls. Birds were surveyed during breeding season in spring 2010. We also determined whether landscape context affected the abundance, richness and particular species abundance within the gaps. For this, we assessed landscape metrics by the Landscape Context Tool for every gap. Abundance (P = 0.003) and richness (P = 0.014) of birds were significantly higher in the gaps than in closed canopy controls. Gaps were higher in herb cover, coarse woody debris density and volume as well as pit and mound micro topography than controls. Great Tit (Parus major), Coal Tit (Parus ater), Eurasian Nuthatch (Sitta europaea), Common Chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs) and European Goldfinch (Carduelis carduelis) were more abundant in gaps than in controls. Among which, European Goldfinch was the only gap specialist species. Song Thrush (Turdus philomelos) was the only species more abundant in controls than gaps. Mean tree diameter had a significant positive relation with avian richness and abundance in gaps, rather than landscape context rate but forest specialist richness was negatively related to gap size. Abundance of Great Tit was related to landscape context rate. Our study highlights the role of gap quality for breeding birds; therefore improving the quality of gap habitats especially maintaining dead wood should be considered as an important conservation factor. Management practices for providing habitat of gap specialists by taking out the remaining trees and making the gaps larger would increase bird species richness in a landscape scale but the shape and size of the openings should be according to the species requirements. We suggest that maintenance of tree fall gaps as a heterogeneous habitat and dead wood resource is crucial for promoting species richness. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Gharehaghaji, M; Shabani, AA; Danehkar, A; Kaboli, M; Ashrafi, S] Univ Tehran, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Environm Sci, Karaj, Iran; [Feghhi, J] Univ Tehran, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Forestry, Karaj, Iran	Gharehaghaji, M (reprint author), Univ Tehran, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Environm Sci, Karaj, Iran.	m.gharehaghaji@gmail.com	Feghhi, Jahangir/H-4439-2018	Feghhi, Jahangir/0000-0003-2253-5789	0	30	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2012	MAR	267					182	189	8		904SU	CCC:000301219000018					2019-04-10J	Verdasca, MJLeitao, ASSantana, JPorto, MDias, SBeja, P	Verdasca, Maria Joao; Leitao, Ana Sofia; Santana, Joana; Porto, Miguel; Dias, Susana; Beja, Pedro		Forest fuel management as a conservation tool for early successional species under agricultural abandonment: The case of Mediterranean butterflies	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Disturbance ecology, Ecological succession, Forest management, Landscape mosaics, Mediterranean butterfly assemblages	LAND-USE CHANGES, BIRD COMMUNITIES, OAK WOODLANDS, HAY MEADOWS, HABITAT USE, DIVERSITY, PLANT, LANDSCAPES, WILDFIRES, RICHNESS	In cultural landscapes there are often negative biodiversity consequences of agricultural abandonment and subsequent scrub and forest encroachment, due to homogenization and the loss of early-successional habitats. The common forestry practice of removing understory vegetation to prevent fire hazard (fuel management) probably has the side-effect of ameliorating these consequences, but it is uncertain whether it effectively restores habitats for early-successional species. Here we examine the influence of time since fuel management and management frequency on butterfly assemblages, using a chronosequence of cork oak (Quercus suber) stands spanning about 70 years. Overall species richness increased immediately after management and abundances peaked about 2-3 years later, while both declined thereafter for about 10-20 years to pre-disturbance levels. Richness and abundances were also much higher in recurrently managed stands. Most life history groups showed successional trends similar to the overall species richness and abundances, though consistent positive effects of fuel management were only observed for species with univoltine life cycle, herbaceous layer feeding, larval overwintering, and intermediate body size. Individual species were largely associated with recent and recurrent management, though a few specialists occurred most often in undisturbed stands. These findings suggest that fuel management at <10 years intervals is strongly positive for butterfly assemblages in landscapes under land abandonment. However, to maintain the overall forest biodiversity it is critical that patches of undisturbed habitat are also retained at the landscape scale. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Santana, J; Beja, P] Univ Porto, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, CIBIO, P-4485601 Vairao, Portugal; [Verdasca, MJ; Leitao, AS] Univ Lisbon, Museu Nacl Hist Nat & Ciencia, P-1250102 Lisbon, Portugal; [Porto, M] Univ Lisbon, Fac Ciencias Lisboa, Dept Biol Vegetal, Ctr Biol Ambiental, P-1749016 Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, S] Inst Super Agron, Ctr Ecol Aplicada Prof Baeta Neves, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal	Beja, P (reprint author), Univ Porto, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, CIBIO, Campus Agr Vairao, P-4485601 Vairao, Portugal.	pbeja@mail.icav.up.pt	Santana, Joana/C-5941-2009; Porto, Miguel/L-7365-2013; Beja, Pedro/A-7851-2008; Dias, Susana/L-7156-2013	Santana, Joana/0000-0002-4100-8012; Porto, Miguel/0000-0001-7640-0623; Beja, Pedro/0000-0001-8164-0760; Dias, Susana/0000-0002-5600-4444	1	49	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2012	FEB	146	1				14	23	10		912QI	CCC:000301814300002					2019-04-10J	Valentine, LESchwarzkopf, LJohnson, CN	Valentine, Leonie E.; Schwarzkopf, Lin; Johnson, Christopher N.		Effects of a short fire-return interval on resources and assemblage structure of birds in a tropical savanna	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	alien plant species, BACI, bird, feeding guild, fire, fire frequency, riparian habitat, rubber vine, tropical savanna	VINE CRYPTOSTEGIA-GRANDIFLORA, MONSOONAL NORTHERN AUSTRALIA, WET-DRY TROPICS, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, EUCALYPTUS FOREST, REGIMES, COMMUNITIES, FREQUENCY, MANAGEMENT, WOODLAND	Fire frequency is a key land management issue, particularly in tropical savannas where fire is widely used and fire recurrence times are often short. We used an extended Before-After-Control-Impact design to examine the impacts of repeated wet-season burning for weed control on bird assemblages in a tropical savanna in north Queensland, Australia. Experimentally replicated fire treatments (unburnt, singularly bunt, twice burnt), in two habitats (riparian and adjacent open woodland), were surveyed over 3 years (1 year before the second burn, 1 year post the second burn, 2 years post the second burn) to examine responses of birds to a rapid recurrence of fire. Following the second burn, species richness and overall bird abundance were lower in the twice-burnt sites than either the unburnt or singularly burnt sites. Feeding group composition varied across year of survey, but within each year, feeding guilds grouped according to fire treatment. In particular, abundance of frugivores and insectivores was lower in twice-burnt sites, probably because of the decline of a native shrub that produces fleshy fruits, Carissa ovata. Although broader climatic variability may ultimately determine overall bird assemblages, our results show that a short fire-return interval will substantially influence bird responses at a local scale. Considering that fire is frequently used as a land management tool, our results emphasize the importance of determining appropriate fire-free intervals.	[Valentine, LE; Schwarzkopf, L; Johnson, CN] James Cook Univ, Sch Marine & Trop Biol, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia	Valentine, LE (reprint author), Murdoch Univ, WA State Ctr Excellence Climate Change Woodland &, Sch Vet Biol & Biomed Sci, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia.	leonie.valentine@gmail.com	Johnson, Chris/A-7275-2008; Schwarzkopf, Lin/C-1242-2012; Johnson, Christopher/J-7894-2014; Valentine, Leonie/G-9963-2012; Research ID, CTBCC/O-3564-2014	Schwarzkopf, Lin/0000-0002-1009-670X; Johnson, Christopher/0000-0002-9719-3771; 	2	39	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1442-9985		AUSTRAL ECOL	Austral Ecol.	2012	FEB	37	1				23	34	12		883HA	CCC:000299623600003		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Dallimer, MSkinner, AMJDavies, ZGArmsworth, PRGaston, KJ	Dallimer, Martin; Skinner, Andrew M. J.; Davies, Zoe G.; Armsworth, Paul R.; Gaston, Kevin J.		Multiple habitat associations: the role of offsite habitat in determining onsite avian density and species richness	ECOGRAPHY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		CLIMATE-CHANGE, AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT, PLUVIALIS-APRICARIA, MOORLAND VEGETATION, BREEDING SUCCESS, BIRD POPULATIONS, PROTECTED AREAS, LAND-USE, CONSERVATION, ABUNDANCE	Many animal populations continue to decline despite occurring in protected areas or on sympathetically managed sites. Frequently, this is because a specific habitat patch may not fulfil all the niche requirements of a threatened species. For instance, species often move between, and make use of, multiple habitat types for breeding, roosting and feeding within the same landscape. These cross-habitat interactions present a challenge for conservation. Here we quantify how the habitat associations of individual species and assemblages occurring within two distinct but adjacent habitat types (moorland and farmland) determine a suite of density and richness indicators, using the bird community of the English uplands as a case study. There was a clear association between onsite avian density and richness and offsite habitat structure (e.g. vegetation height, percent cover of dominant plant species, land management practices). Although such effects are not universal across all species and assemblages, where present (for five farmland and three moorland indicators) the increase in explanatory power offered by including offsite habitat structure can be large. By constructing scenarios of possible changes to management practice on both moorland and farmland, we demonstrate a real conservation benefit can be obtained by altering management in offsite habitats. For example, reducing burning intensity on moorland can result in a five-fold increase in snipe Gallinago gallinago density on farmland, without an alteration in farmland habitat. For one species (Eurasian curlew Numenius arquata), we demonstrate the frequency with which birds move between and utilise farmland and moorland during the breeding season, and therefore the importance of both habitat types to maintaining population densities. The multiple habitat dependency phenomenon quantified here is common and not restricted to birds. The successful conservation of many threatened species will thus depend on coordinated cross-habitat management.	[Dallimer, M; Skinner, AMJ; Davies, ZG; Armsworth, PR; Gaston, KJ] Univ Sheffield, Dept Anim & Plant Sci, Biodivers & Macroecol Grp, Sheffield S10 2TN, S Yorkshire, England	Dallimer, M (reprint author), Univ Sheffield, Dept Anim & Plant Sci, Biodivers & Macroecol Grp, Sheffield S10 2TN, S Yorkshire, England.	m.dallimer@sheffield.ac.uk		Armsworth, Paul/0000-0003-0918-0573; Gaston, Kevin J./0000-0002-7235-7928; Dallimer, Martin/0000-0001-8120-3309	4	67	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0906-7590		ECOGRAPHY	Ecography	2012	FEB	35	2				134	145	12		880ND	CCC:000299413000005		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Mcfarland, TMVan Riper, CJohnson, GE	Mcfarland, T. M.; Van Riper, C., III; Johnson, G. E.		Evaluation of NDVI to assess avian abundance and richness along the upper San Pedro River	JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Avian habitat, Arizona, NDVI model, Remote-sensing, Riparian vegetation, San Pedro river	SOUTHWESTERN WILLOW FLYCATCHER, LOWER COLORADO RIVER, LEAF-AREA INDEX, HABITAT RELATIONSHIPS, UNITED-STATES, SPECIES RICHNESS, RIPARIAN VEGETATION, MIGRATING BIRDS, BREEDING BIRDS, RESTORATION	Remote-sensing models have become increasingly popular for identifying, characterizing, monitoring, and predicting avian habitat but have largely focused on single bird species. The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) has been shown to positively correlate with avian abundance and richness and has been successfully applied to southwestern riparian systems which are uniquely composed of narrow bands of vegetation in an otherwise dry landscape. Desert riparian ecosystems are important breeding and stopover sites for many bird species but have been degraded due to altered hydrology and land management practices. Here we investigated the use of NDVI, coupled with vegetation, to model the avian community structure along the San Pedro River, Arizona. We also investigated how vegetation and physical features measured locally compared to those data that can be gathered through remote-sensing. We found that NDVI has statistically significant relationships with both avian abundance and species richness, although is better applied at the individual species level. However, the amount of variation explained by even our best models was quite low, suggesting that NDVI habitat models may not presently be an accurate tool for extensive modeling of avian communities. We suggest additional studies in other watersheds to increase our understanding of these bird/NDVI relationships. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Mcfarland, TM; Johnson, GE] Univ Arizona, Sch Nat Resources, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Mcfarland, TM; Van Riper, C; Johnson, GE] Univ Arizona, USGS SBSC Sonoran Desert Res Stn, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA	Mcfarland, TM (reprint author), TAMU, Inst Renewable Nat Resources, 1500 Res Pkwy,Suite 110,2260, College Stn, TX 77843 USA.	tmmcfarland@ag.tamu.edu			0	33	ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD	LONDON	24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND	http://www.apnet.com	0140-1963		J ARID ENVIRON	J. Arid. Environ.	2012	FEB	77					45	53	9		862XF	CCC:000298126700007					2019-04-10J	Izhaki, I	Izhaki, Ido		THE IMPACT OF FIRE ON VERTEBRATES IN THE MEDITERRANEAN BASIN: AN OVERVIEW	ISRAEL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	vertebrates, Mediterranean ecosystems, fire, species richness, biodiversity, succession, disturbance	BIRD COMMUNITY SUCCESSION, BREEDING BIRDS, LANDSCAPE CHANGES, FOREST, DIVERSITY, WILDFIRES, CONSERVATION, ASSEMBLAGES, VEGETATION, RESPONSES	Wildfires are among the most important natural disturbances in the Mediterranean basin. They impose drastic habitat and landscape modifications that affect not only the vegetation but also vertebrate dynamics and structure from the population up to the community levels. There are a wide range of post-fire succession trajectories for vertebrate populations, whereas specific-species responses are dependent upon post-fire biotic and abiotic conditions in the burned habitat. The main generalization at the population level is that the burned areas support populations of open-and edge-habitat species, whereas the species most abundant in unburned woody areas are typical forest-dweller species that avoid open areas. Wildfires reduce habitat availability for forest animals, but the overall impact of fire is not necessarily negative from the perspective of biodiversity conservation, since it creates heterogeneous landscape with forest patches that support forest dwellers and forest-edge specialists along with open habitats that are critical to maintain open-habitat species. But the effect of fires in the Mediterranean basin on biodiversity is highly variable and dependent upon several factors: the extent, severity, and frequency of the fire, the initial state of the ecosystem, the spatial arrangement and isolation of the post-fire burned and unburned patches, and various abiotic conditions. From the management point of view, the maintenance of landscape mosaic habitats with different fire history is vital for the preservation of high vertebrate biodiversity in the Mediterranean region.	Univ Haifa, Dept Evolutionary & Environm Biol, IL-31905 Haifa, Israel	Izhaki, I (reprint author), Univ Haifa, Dept Evolutionary & Environm Biol, IL-31905 Haifa, Israel.	izhaki@research.haifa.ac.il	Izhaki, Ido/D-5586-2011	Izhaki, Ido/0000-0002-4525-4683	0	10	SCIENCE FROM ISRAEL-DIVISION OF LASER PAGES PUBL LTD	JERUSALEM	PO BOX 34299, JERUSALEM 91341, ISRAEL	http://www.israelsciencejournals.com	1565-9801		ISR J ECOL EVOL	Isr. J. Ecol. Evol.	2012		58	2-3			SI	221	233	13		145AO	CCC:000318985200010					2019-04-10J	Levin, NLegge, SPrice, BBowen, MLitvack, EMaron, MMcAlpine, C	Levin, Noam; Legge, Sarah; Price, Bronwyn; Bowen, Michiala; Litvack, Emily; Maron, Martine; McAlpine, Clive		MODIS time series as a tool for monitoring fires and their effects on savanna bird diversity	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF WILDLAND FIRE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	biodiversity, fire scars, Landsat, NDVI, primary productivity, QuickBird	KAKADU NATIONAL-PARK, NORTHERN AUSTRALIA, TROPICAL SAVANNAS, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, KIMBERLEY REGION, LAND-USE, VEGETATION, LANDSCAPE, PATTERNS, REGIMES	In this study, we aimed to explore the effect of fires on bird diversity in Australia's tropical savannas. Bird surveys were conducted at 69 sites between 2005 and 2007 to estimate bird species richness and abundance within the Mornington Sanctuary, the Kimberley, north-west Australia. We used MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectro-radiometer) and Landsat satellite imagery to map fire scars and to quantify vegetation cover parameters, and QuickBird imagery to map the percentage tree cover. Bird species richness and abundance were higher in areas exhibiting minimum seasonal and interannual changes, e. g. in riparian areas, near water and where tree cover was high. We found a significant negative effect of fire on bird diversity following the extensive late dry-season fires of 2006. These findings support the view that intense and large fires are threatening biodiversity and reinforce the importance of reducing the occurrence of late dry-season fires, which are the most severe and extensive. MODIS satellite imagery was found to provide a cost-effective approach to monitoring savanna landscapes, assessing the state of vegetation and monitoring fire dynamics.	[Levin, N; Litvack, E] Hebrew Univ Jerusalem, Dept Geog, IL-91905 Jerusalem, Israel; [Legge, S] Mornington Wildlife Sanctuary, Australian Wildlife Conservancy, Derby, WA 6728, Australia; [Price, B; Bowen, M; Maron, M; McAlpine, C] Univ Queensland, Landscape Ecol & Conservat Grp, Ctr Spatial Environm Res, Sch Geog Planning & Environm Management, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia; [Price, B] Dept Sustainabil & Environm, Forest & Pk Div, Melbourne, Vic 3002, Australia	Levin, N (reprint author), Hebrew Univ Jerusalem, Dept Geog, IL-91905 Jerusalem, Israel.	noamlevin@mscc.huji.ac.il	Levin, Noam/D-2180-2013; Maron, Martine/D-9699-2011; McAlpine, Clive/A-3907-2010; Price, Bronwyn/L-3538-2013	Levin, Noam/0000-0002-9434-7501; Maron, Martine/0000-0002-5563-5789; Price, Bronwyn/0000-0003-3555-2588	1	14	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1049-8001		INT J WILDLAND FIRE	Int. J. Wildland Fire	2012		21	6				680	694	15		003ZY	CCC:000308651100005					2019-04-10J	Brauze, T	Brauze, Tomasz		Tree-stand age preferences of breeding Lesser Whitethroats Sylvia curruca in a forest in Central Poland	BIRD STUDY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		BIRD COMMUNITIES, SELECTION, WARBLERS, ENGLAND, SWEDEN	Capsule Lesser Whitethroats Sylvia curruca nested within a large forest complex in central Poland. They showed a strong preference for stands of pine Pinus spp. aged 9-15 years, in which they nested at a high density (31 pairs/km(2)). The presence of these stands of young conifers was the result of particular forest management practices and certain low-fertility soil types. It is concluded that Lesser Whitethroats do not avoid the interior of forests per se, but simply do not usually find suitably large patches of preferred habitats within them.	Nicholas Copernicus Univ, Inst Ecol & Environm Protect, Dept Vertebrate Zool, PL-87100 Torun, Poland	Brauze, T (reprint author), Nicholas Copernicus Univ, Inst Ecol & Environm Protect, Dept Vertebrate Zool, Gagarina 9, PL-87100 Torun, Poland.	brauze@umk.pl			1	8	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandf.co.uk	0006-3657		BIRD STUDY	Bird Stud.	2012		59	3				376	379	4		996PG	CCC:000308103300017		Bronze			2019-04-10J	D'Astous, EVillard, MA	D'Astous, Emilie; Villard, Marc-Andre		Effects of selection harvesting on bark invertebrates and nest provisioning rate in an old forest specialist, the brown creeper (Certhia americana)	ECOSCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bark gleaning, bark invertebrates, northern hardwood forest, parent-offspring conflict, selection harvesting	FOOD AVAILABILITY, PARUS-CAERULEUS, BLUE TITS, THERMAL-PROPERTIES, FORAGING ECOLOGY, ACADIAN FOREST, TERRITORY SIZE, PARENTAL CARE, WATER PIPIT, PREY SIZE	The brown creeper (Certhia americana) is one of the forest bird species most sensitive to partial harvesting in North America. We examined the detailed response of this species and its food (bark-dwelling invertebrates) during the 3rd and 4th year after experimental selection harvesting (30-40% basal area removal) in northern hardwood forest. Relative to control plots, nest densities in treated plots were ca 50% lower. Because the density of nesting substrates was not significantly lower in treated plots than in controls, we investigated whether foraging substrates could be the limiting factor. Specifically, we tested for a treatment effect on 1) the abundance and species composition of bark invertebrate assemblages; 2) the biomass of bark invertebrates per unit area; and 3) the frequency of food provisioning. As predicted, treatment had a significant negative effect on food provisioning rate, though not on invertebrate biomass, when accounting for year effects. There was also no evidence for a treatment effect on the structure of bark invertebrate assemblages, which was mainly influenced by cumulative degree days. Selection harvesting thus appeared to reduce the amount of food delivered to brown creeper nestlings, unless greater amounts of food were delivered per feeding trip in treated plots. The lower density of foraging substrates in treated plots (77 versus 112 stems.ha(-1) in controls) may require that adults perform longer foraging trips. Future studies should determine whether this extra effort has short-or long-term consequences for adults and nestlings.	[D'Astous, E; Villard, MA] Univ Moncton, Dept Biol, Chaire Rech Canada Conservat Paysages, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9, Canada	Villard, MA (reprint author), Univ Moncton, Dept Biol, Chaire Rech Canada Conservat Paysages, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9, Canada.	marc-andre.villard@umoncton.ca			1	17	UNIVERSITE LAVAL	ST FOY	PAVILLON CHARLES-EUGENE MARCHAND, LOCAL 0166, ST FOY, QUEBEC G1K 7P4, CANADA	http:www.ecoscience.ulaval.ca	1195-6860		ECOSCIENCE	Ecoscience	2012		19	2				106	112	7		986QH	CCC:000307358200002					2019-04-10J	Woinarski, JCZFisher, AArmstrong, MBrennan, KGriffiths, ADHill, BChoy, JLMilne, DStewart, AYoung, SWard, SWinderlich, SZiembicki, M	Woinarski, J. C. Z.; Fisher, A.; Armstrong, M.; Brennan, K.; Griffiths, A. D.; Hill, B.; Choy, J. Low; Milne, D.; Stewart, A.; Young, S.; Ward, S.; Winderlich, S.; Ziembicki, M.		Monitoring indicates greater resilience for birds than for mammals in Kakadu National Park, northern Australia	WILDLIFE RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	cane toad, conservation, fire, threatened species	TOADS BUFO-MARINUS, FIRE REGIMES, VERTEBRATE FAUNA, TROPICAL SAVANNA, TERRITORY, VEGETATION, FREQUENCY, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPES, MORTALITY	Context. Aprevious study reported major declines for native mammal species from Kakadu National Park, over the period 2001-09. The extent to which this result may be symptomatic of more pervasive biodiversity decline was unknown.Aims. Our primary aim was to describe trends in the abundance of birds in Kakadu over the period 2001-09. We assessed whether any change in bird abundance was related to the arrival of invading cane toads (Rhinella marina), and to fire regimes.Methods. Birds were monitored at 136 1-ha plots in Kakadu, during the period 2001-04 and again in 2007-09. This program complemented sampling of the same plots over the same period for native mammals.Key results. In contrast to the decline reported for native mammals, the richness and total abundance of birds increased over this period, and far more individual bird species increased than decreased. Fire history in the between-sampling period had little influence on trends for individual species. Interpretation of the overall positive trends for bird species in Kakadu over this period should be tempered by recognition that most of the threatened bird species present in Kakadu were unrecorded in this monitoring program, and the two threatened species for which there were sufficient records to assess trends - partridge pigeon (Geophaps smithii) and white-throated grass-wren (Amytornis woodwardi) - both declined significantly.Conclusions. The current decline of the mammal fauna in this region is not reflected in trends for the region's bird fauna. Some of the observed changes (mostly increases) in the abundance of bird species may be due to the arrival of cane toads, and some may be due to local or regional-scale climatic variation or variation in the amount of flowering. The present study provides no assurance about threatened bird species, given that most were inadequately recorded in the study (perhaps because their decline pre-dated the present study).Implications. These contrasting trends between mammals and birds demonstrate the need for biodiversity monitoring programs to be broadly based. The declines of two threatened bird species over this period indicate the need for more management focus for these species.	[Woinarski, JCZ; Fisher, A; Armstrong, M; Brennan, K; Griffiths, AD; Hill, B; Choy, JL; Milne, D; Stewart, A; Young, S; Ward, S; Ziembicki, M] Arts & Sport, Dept Nat Resources Environm, Palmerston, NT 0831, Australia; [Woinarski, JCZ; Fisher, A] Charles Darwin Univ, Natl Environm Res Program N Australian Hub, Darwin, NT 0909, Australia; [Woinarski, JCZ; Stewart, A] Charles Darwin Univ, Res Inst Environm & Livelihoods, Darwin, NT 0909, Australia; [Winderlich, S] Kakadu Natl Pk, Jabiru, NT 0886, Australia	Woinarski, JCZ (reprint author), POB 148, Christmas Isl, WA 6798, Australia.	john.woinarski@cdu.edu.au	Ziembicki, Mark/A-4777-2012; Woinarski, John/N-2262-2013; Milne, Damian/; Griffiths, Tony/	Ziembicki, Mark/0000-0002-6904-0444; Milne, Damian/0000-0002-9572-2713; Griffiths, Tony/0000-0001-8089-2122	0	42	CSIRO PUBLISHING	COLLINGWOOD	150 OXFORD ST, PO BOX 1139, COLLINGWOOD, VICTORIA 3066, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1035-3712		WILDLIFE RES	Wildl. Res.	2012		39	5				397	407	11		967ZX	CCC:000305947900004					2019-04-10J	Catford, JADaehler, CCMurphy, HTSheppard, AWHardesty, BDWestcott, DARejmanek, MBellingham, PJPergl, JHorvitz, CCHulme, PE	Catford, Jane A.; Daehler, Curtis C.; Murphy, Helen T.; Sheppard, Andy W.; Hardesty, Britta D.; Westcott, David A.; Rejmanek, Marcel; Bellingham, Peter J.; Pergl, Jan; Horvitz, Carol C.; Hulme, Philip E.		The intermediate disturbance hypothesis and plant invasions: Implications for species richness and management	PERSPECTIVES IN PLANT ECOLOGY EVOLUTION AND SYSTEMATICS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Alien species, Biological diversity, Life history tradeoffs, Community ecology, Species coexistence, Succession	ENEMY RELEASE HYPOTHESIS, ACER-PLATANOIDES L., GRASS-FIRE CYCLE, BIOLOGICAL INVASIONS, ALIEN PLANTS, RELATIVE IMPORTANCE, NORTHERN AUSTRALIA, TRAIT DIFFERENCES, INTRODUCED GRASS, TROPICAL FORESTS	The intermediate disturbance hypothesis (IDH) predicts a hump-shaped pattern between community diversity and disturbance, and is central to understanding patterns of species diversity. Here, we examine IDH in the context of alien plant: invasions. IDH can offer insight into the role of disturbance in facilitating plant invasions and the effect of these invasions on floristic diversity.Early stages of succession are most susceptible to invasion because resources and colonisation opportunities are elevated after disturbance. This trend is accentuated by human-mediated dispersal, a bias towards early successional species in the alien species pool, the tendency for fast-growing species to profit most from enemy release, and increased disturbance levels in human-modified habitats. Human disturbance, coupled with plant introductions, extends the diversity disturbance curve and shifts peak diversity towards higher disturbance levels. However, invasive aliens can reduce native diversity at the community scale, especially in mid succession where competitive interactions structure communities. Certain invasive plants may have higher impacts because they overcome some life history tradeoffs as a result of their association with humans or novel evolutionary histories, e.g. enemy release. This may directly or indirectly (e.g. through plastic reallocation of resources from defence into growth) enable invasive plants to colonise earlier or persist into later stages of succession. By modifying disturbance regimes, invaders that transform the environment may also interfere with succession and precipitate low diversity communities. Low introduction rates of late successional species may currently limit impacts of aliens under infrequent disturbance.IDH is a useful framework for understanding ecological communities. However, because of the novel evolutionary histories of alien species and the anthropogenic context in which they invade, disturbance levels that maximise total diversity in invaded communities can differ from those that maximise native diversity. Joint consideration of IDH and alien invasion patterns suggests a range of strategies can be used to manage diversity. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	[Catford, JA] Univ Melbourne, Sch Bot, Melbourne, Vic 3010, Australia; [Daehler, CC] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Bot, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Murphy, HT; Hardesty, BD; Westcott, DA] CSIRO Ecosyst Sci, Atherton, Qld 4883, Australia; [Sheppard, AW] CSIRO Ecosyst Sci, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; [Rejmanek, M] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Ecol & Evolut, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Bellingham, PJ] Landcare Res, Lincoln 7640, New Zealand; [Pergl, J] Acad Sci Czech Republic, Inst Bot, CZ-25243 Pruhonice, Czech Republic; [Horvitz, CC] Univ Miami, Dept Biol, Coral Gables, FL 33124 USA; [Hulme, PE] Lincoln Univ, Bioprotect Res Ctr, Canterbury 7647, New Zealand	Catford, JA (reprint author), Univ Melbourne, Sch Bot, Melbourne, Vic 3010, Australia.	catfordj@unimelb.edu.au	Hardesty, Britta Denise/A-3189-2011; James Cook University, TESS/B-8171-2012; Sheppard, Andy/C-1045-2009; Pergl, Jan/H-1071-2011; Murphy, Helen/G-5718-2010; Catford, Jane/B-9578-2012; Westcott, David/G-5559-2010; Hulme, Philip/F-7454-2011	Hardesty, Britta Denise/0000-0003-1948-5098; Pergl, Jan/0000-0002-0045-1974; Catford, Jane/0000-0003-0582-5960; Hulme, Philip/0000-0001-5712-0474	14	277	ELSEVIER GMBH, URBAN & FISCHER VERLAG	JENA	OFFICE JENA, P O BOX 100537, 07705 JENA, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	1433-8319		PERSPECT PLANT ECOL	Perspect. Plant Ecol. Evol. Syst.	2012		14	3				231	241	11		964SD	CCC:000305716100007					2019-04-10J	Serong, MLill, A	Serong, Merrilyn; Lill, Alan		Changes in bird assemblages during succession following disturbance in secondary wet forests in south-eastern Australia	EMU			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		ASH EUCALYPTUS-REGNANS, CENTRAL HIGHLANDS, POPULATION RECOVERY, CLIMATE-CHANGE, RAIN-FOREST, OLD FOREST, VICTORIA, DIVERSITY, AVIFAUNA, IMPACTS	After a successional forest is severely disturbed by wildfire and subsequent salvage logging or by clearfell timber harvesting and slash burning, if conditions are suitable, the forest will regenerate. It then passes through a series of stages of varying floristic composition and structure until further severe disturbance occurs. The characteristics of a forest-bird assemblage vary with both the successional stage of the forest (time period since the most recent severe disturbance event) and the long-term disturbance history of the forest. To determine how the bird assemblage changes during succession in a south-eastern Australian forest type that is fire-sensitive and also subject to regular timber harvesting, we surveyed birds in five age-classes of wet forest (from 2 to >100 years post-disturbance). Bird-assemblage composition altered sequentially; the pattern and rate of change reflected those of the vegetation. Bird abundance and species richness varied little during succession. No species of bird was abundant only in early successional forest. Some species, such as Brown Thornbill (Acanthiza pusilla), Golden Whistler (Pachycephala pectoralis) and Grey Fantail (Rhipidura albiscapa), were common in all successional stages. Other species, such as White-throated Treecreeper (Cormobates leucophaea) and Striated Pardalote (Pardalotus striatus), were consistently abundant in mid-to late successional stages only; this highlighted the importance of older forests for avian biodiversity. Any increase in the frequency of severe disturbance in these forests would tend to favour only those bird species that are already common. This has implications for management programs in forests that are habitat for wildlife, but are also used by humans for timber harvesting and other commercial or recreational purposes.	[Serong, M; Lill, A] Monash Univ, Sch Biol Sci, Clayton, Vic 3800, Australia	Serong, M (reprint author), Monash Univ, Sch Biol Sci, Clayton, Vic 3800, Australia.	merrilyn@wirejunkie.com			4	31	CSIRO PUBLISHING	COLLINGWOOD	150 OXFORD ST, PO BOX 1139, COLLINGWOOD, VICTORIA 3066, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	0158-4197		EMU	Emu	2012		112	2				117	128	12		946MN	CCC:000304356100006					2019-04-10J	Gyuracz, JBanhidi, PCsuka, A	Gyuracz, Jozsef; Banhidi, Peter; Csuka, Andras		Successful restoration of water level and surface area restored migrant bird populations in a Hungarian wetland	BIOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	wetland, restoration, bird assemblages, abundance	SALT-MARSH, HABITAT, PERSPECTIVE, COMMUNITIES, LANDSCAPE, DIVERSITY	Water level and water surface area fluctuations are important factors determining abundance of bird populations and bird assemblages structure in a wetland habitat. The water level and water surface area of the Marsh Tomord (West Hungary) changed drastically between 1998 and 2008, and the marsh dried out because of scarce rainfall in 2000 and 2001. A habitat restoration in winter 2001 repaired the waterholding capacity of the marsh. We analyzed changes in parameters of bird assemblages in investigated wetland area in relation of environmental factors. We used full redundancy analysis (RDA) on number of caugth migratory birds per year, species richness, diversity and evenness of bird assemblages to examine correlations among water level, water surface area and vegetation core. Species like water rail, common snipe, river warbler, Savi's warbler, great reed warbler, reed warbler, marsh warbler, sedge warbler, reed bunting showed high and positive linear correlations with the water level and water surface area in the postbreeding period. Some wetland species, sedge warbler, Savi's warbler and reed bunting as well as total number of caugth birds per year and total numbers of caugth species per year were clearly associated with thick marsh vegetation. According to our results the bird species composition of the wetland might have returned to the prerestoration levels and surface areas.	[Gyuracz, J; Csuka, A] Univ W Hungary, Inst Biol, H-9700 Szombathely, Hungary; [Banhidi, P] Istvan Chernel Ornithol & Nat Conservat Soc, H-9700 Szombathely, Hungary	Gyuracz, J (reprint author), Univ W Hungary, Inst Biol, Savaria Campus,Karolyi G Ter 4, H-9700 Szombathely, Hungary.	gyjozsi@ttk.nyme.hu	Gyuracz, Jozsef/I-9602-2017		1	29	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0006-3088		BIOLOGIA	Biologia	2011	DEC	66	6				1177	1182	6		876JD	CCC:000299102900027		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Lapiedra, OPonjoan, AGamero, ABota, GManosa, S	Lapiedra, Oriol; Ponjoan, Anna; Gamero, Anna; Bota, Gerard; Manosa, Santi		Brood ranging behaviour and breeding success of the threatened little bustard in an intensified cereal farmland area	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Ranging behaviour, Farmland management, Arthropod availability, Steppe-bird conservation, Agricultural intensification, Lleida plains	TETRAX-TETRAX POPULATION, AGRICULTURAL LAND-USE, HABITAT SELECTION, BIRD CONSERVATION, WESTERN FRANCE, CENTRAL SPAIN, STEPPE BIRDS, HOME-RANGE, OTIS-TARDA, BIODIVERSITY	Cereal pseudo-steppes hold the largest proportion of declining bird species in Europe. Understanding how this process of decline is driven is essential for designing adequate management practices. The little bustard (Tetrax tetrax) is one of such threatened steppe-land bird species, which has suffered recent dramatic range constrictions and population declines. Although low breeding success has been claimed to be the main threat for the viability of future little bustard populations, the surprising lack of studies dealing with ecological requirements of broods hinders the implementation of efficient conservation practices. We studied the ranging behaviour and the reproductive success of a little bustard population by means of female radio-tracking conducted during 2006-2008 breeding seasons in the Ebro basin (NE Spain). We recorded an average breeding success of 0.27 chicks/hen, which is not enough to sustain a viable population according to the demographic models for the species. Early-laid clutches showed more probabilities to hatch and to fledge. This was associated to two different ranging patterns (i.e. sedentary versus wandering respectively) which depended on the ability of the hen and its chicks to settle in suitable areas harbouring enough arthropods and shelter for chicks. Such resources decrease drastically as the breeding season progresses. Overall, data suggest that agricultural practices associated to agricultural intensification, particularly early harvest, reduce breeding success both directly by nest destruction and indirectly through a decrease on resource availability for broods. Based on our findings on the characteristics and structure of the home range of little bustard broods, we propose the creation of a network of permanent vegetation plots interconnected by high-quality field margins as a management practice to raise the breeding success of little bustards and other ground-nesting birds on cereal farmland. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Lapiedra, O; Ponjoan, A; Gamero, A; Manosa, S] Univ Barcelona, Dept Biol Anim, Fac Biol, IRBIO, E-08028 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain; [Lapiedra, O; Ponjoan, A; Bota, G] Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Area Biodiversitat, Solsona 25280, Catalonia, Spain	Ponjoan, A (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, Dept Biol Anim, Fac Biol, IRBIO, Avinguda Diagonal 645, E-08028 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.	aponjoan@yahoo.com	Manosa, Santiago/R-6693-2018; Ponjoan, Anna/	Ponjoan, Anna/0000-0003-4314-6387	0	30	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2011	DEC	144	12				2882	2890	9		868KF	CCC:000298521500018					2019-04-10J	Caprio, EChamberlain, DEIsaia, MRolando, A	Caprio, Enrico; Chamberlain, Dan E.; Isaia, Marco; Rolando, Antonio		Landscape changes caused by high altitude ski-pistes affect bird species richness and distribution in the Alps	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Alpine bird communities, Landscape, Grasslands, High altitudes, Ski-pistes, Habitat conservation	HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, RECREATIONAL DISTURBANCE, DECIDUOUS FORESTS, CLIMATE-CHANGE, VEGETATION, IMPACT, RESTORATION, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY, SELECTION	There is a paucity of research on the wider landscape-level effects of ski-piste construction on alpine fauna. In this study, the response of alpine bird communities to the landscape changes induced by the construction of ski-pistes was investigated in the western Italian Alps. The aims were: (i) to test the hypothesis that ski-pistes have a detrimental effect on alpine grassland bird communities at a landscape-scale; and, (ii) to model local probability distributions of bird species according to different scenarios of ski-piste restoration and ski-piste proliferation above the treeline. Species richness and presence/absence data from point counts were analyzed in relation to GIS-derived landscape variables based on a 16 ha hexagon grid. Predictive variables were selected through the LASSO model selection procedure, and logistic regression was used to estimate the probability of occurrence of each species in each hexagon. Grassland species richness, and probability of occurrence of water pipit, wheatear and black redstart, significantly decreased with increasing extent of ski-piste edge. Length of ski-piste edge was in the set of best models considering a large range of habitat and landscape predictors, and are therefore clearly features that exert a strong negative effect on high alpine grassland bird communities. Predictions of species occurrence were made by applying the models to different scenarios of habitat change. These showed predicted detrimental impacts of a relatively small 10% increase in ski-piste extent, but also that grassland restoration on existing ski-pistes could result in significantly increased occurrence rates of alpine grassland species. This study suggests that ski-pistes are perceived by birds as detrimental features of the alpine landscape. To minimize their impact, new, environmentally-friendly ways of constructing pistes should be developed, which could include habitat restoration and management to obtain a level of grass cover such that edges of ski-pistes are no longer perceived by birds. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Caprio, E; Chamberlain, DE; Isaia, M; Rolando, A] Univ Turin, Dipartimento Biol Anim & Uomo, I-10123 Turin, Italy	Caprio, E (reprint author), Univ Turin, Dipartimento Biol Anim & Uomo, Via Accad Albertina 13, I-10123 Turin, Italy.	enrico.caprio@unito.it	Chamberlain, Dan/K-1809-2015; Isaia, Marco/I-1629-2015; Caprio, Enrico/G-1310-2011	Chamberlain, Dan/0000-0002-5381-2024; Isaia, Marco/0000-0001-5434-2127; Caprio, Enrico/0000-0002-5997-5959	5	66	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2011	DEC	144	12				2958	2967	10		868KF	CCC:000298521500026					2019-04-10J	Yusuf, HTreydte, ACDemissew, SWoldu, Z	Yusuf, Hasan; Treydte, Anna C.; Demissew, Sebsebe; Woldu, Zerihun		Assessment of woody species encroachment in the grasslands of Nechisar National Park, Ethiopia	AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	forbs cover, grass cover, grassland plain, native invasive species, Nechisar National Park, woody species encroachment	AFRICAN SAVANNA, LAND-USE, TREE, COVER, DISTURBANCE, VEGETATION, COMMUNITY, RAINFALL, DYNAMICS, BIOMASS	Ecological survey was executed to assess woody species encroachment into the grassland plain of Nechisar National Park (NNP). Forty-one woody species were recorded. Dichrostachys cinerea Wight & Arn., Acacia mellifera (Vahl) Benth., Acacia nilotica (L) Willd., Acacia senegal (L.) Willd., Acacia seyal Del. and Acacia tortilis (Forssk.) Hayne were among the major encroaching woody species. The majority of the woody species were found to be highly aggregated in their pattern of distribution, while only few species showed some degree of randomness. The mean woody species density was ca. 1995 woody plants ha-1. Mean cover of woody, grass, unpalatable forbs and total herbaceous species were 31%, 58%, 68% and 121%, respectively. The woody species density and cover, unpalatable forbs and bare land cover were significantly higher in the highly grazed and fire-suppressed part of the grassland plain. Pearson correlation coefficient matrix indicated that woody species cover and density were negatively correlated with total herbaceous and grass cover. The high woody, unpalatable forbs and bare land cover indicated the progressively increasing perennial grass species diversity deterioration in the grass plain of the Park. Decline in the grassland condition, unless reversed, will jeopardize the biological diversity as well as the aesthetic value of the NNP.	[Yusuf, H] Wollega Univ, Dept Plant Sci, Coll Agr & Rural Dev, Nekemte, Ethiopia; [Treydte, AC] Univ Hohenheim, Inst Agroecol Trop & Subtrop, D-70599 Stuttgart, Germany; [Demissew, S; Woldu, Z] Univ Addis Ababa, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia	Yusuf, H (reprint author), Wollega Univ, Dept Plant Sci, Coll Agr & Rural Dev, POB 395, Nekemte, Ethiopia.	hgyusuf@yahoo.co.uk			4	18	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0141-6707		AFR J ECOL	Afr. J. Ecol.	2011	DEC	49	4				397	409	13		850MN	CCC:000297199000002					2019-04-10J	Hahn, IJVergara, PMRomer, U	Hahn, Ingo J.; Vergara, Pablo M.; Roemer, Uwe		Habitat selection and population trends in terrestrial bird species of Robinson Crusoe Island: habitat generalists versus forest specialists	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Anairetes fernandezianus, Habitat selection, Invasive species, Population declining, Sephanoides fernandensis, Juan Fernandez Islands	JUAN-FERNANDEZ ISLANDS, BIOTIC HOMOGENIZATION, CONSERVATION STATUS, FRUIT AVAILABILITY, CERULEAN WARBLERS, CANARY-ISLANDS, SPATIAL SCALES, CENTRAL CHILE, FRAGMENTATION, COMMUNITIES	Habitat loss and degradation on oceanic islands are key processes leading to population decline of endemic birds and facilitating the establishment of invasive bird species. In this study, carried out in the Robinson Crusoe Island, we assessed density and habitat selection of terrestrial bird species, including juan fernandez firecrown and juan fernandez tit-tyrant, two endemics, as well as green-backed firecrown and austral thrush, which apparently originate from the mainland. Results show that perturbed habitats contained a low density of the endemic species whereas the mainland species were significantly more abundant in perturbed scrub habitats. Bird species show different habitat selection patterns, with endemics selecting for native forest and mainland species selecting for perturbed habitats, or using them at random. Bird species experienced temporal trends in their overall population sizes, with the endemic tit-tyrant suffering a significant decline in its population size of about 63% between 1994 and 2009. Only mainland species exhibited temporal changes in habitat use, significantly reducing their densities in the preferred scrub habitats, possibly as a response to decreased habitat quality. Thrushes apparently were able to compensate the population decrease in one non native habitat type by using native forests, a habitat giving them the opportunity of preying on nests of endemic species. We conclude that endemic bird species behave as specialists whereas the mainland species must be treated as invasive generalists on Robinson Crusoe Island.	[Hahn, IJ] Univ Munster, Inst Landscape Ecol, D-48149 Munster, Germany; [Vergara, PM] Univ Santiago de Chile, Dept Engineer Geog, Santiago 7254758, Chile; [Vergara, PM] Univ Santiago de Chile, CEUS Llanquihue, Santiago, Chile; [Romer, U] Univ Trier, Inst Biogeog, D-54296 Trier, Germany	Hahn, IJ (reprint author), Univ Munster, Inst Landscape Ecol, Robert Koch Str 28, D-48149 Munster, Germany.	ingo.hahn@uni-muenster.de			0	33	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2011	NOV	20	12				2797	2813	17		850MX	CCC:000297200000015					2019-04-10J	Costello, SLNegron, JFJacobi, WR	Costello, Sheryl L.; Negron, Jose F.; Jacobi, William R.		Wood-boring insect abundance in fire-injured ponderosa pine	AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST ENTOMOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENTOMOLOGY/PEST CONTROL	Entomology	Buprestidae, Cerambycidae, fire severity, wood-boring insects, woodpeckers	EUROPEAN CORN-BORER, GENE FLOW, OSTRINIA-NUBILALIS, UNITED-STATES, BT CROPS, POPULATION DIFFERENTIATION, LEPIDOPTERA-PYRALIDAE, MICROSATELLITE LOCI, FRENCH POPULATIONS, F-STATISTICS	1 Wood-boring larvae in the families Cerambycidae and Buprestidae are often found in high densities in burned trees after wildland fires. They play an important role in tree decomposition, often reducing the value of salvageable timber, and represent an important avian food source.2 Three forest areas that experienced wildfires 1-3 years previously were surveyed during the summer of 2004. Ponderosa pine trees with green, scorched and consumed needles were examined for wood borer occurrence. Within each of the three needle damage categories, the mean wood borer incidence was similar between different age fires. Trees with scorched or consumed needles had significantly more wood borers than trees with green needles.3 Larvae collected from under tree bark were identified to family; when possible, cerambycids were identified further to Acanthocinus spp., Monochamus sp., Rhagium inquisitor (L.) and Stictoleptura canadensis (LeConte), and buprestids were identified to Chalcophora spp. and Chrysobothris sp.4 Classification tree models showed that the estimated probability of tree infestation by wood borers varied among needle damage categories. For trees with green needles, tree injury variables of high bole char height and phloem discolouration were important predictive variables. In trees where needles were consumed, tree size variables of diameter at breast height and tree height were important predictive variables.5 More than half the dead trees examined were infested with wood borers, indicating that infestation of fire-killed ponderosa pine may represent an important food source for species such as woodpeckers and a potential problem for the utilization of infested trees.	[Costello, SL; Negron, JF] Colorado State Univ, Dept Bioagr Sci & Pest Management, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA; [Jacobi, WR] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Ft Collins, CO 80525 USA	Costello, SL (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, 740 Simms St, Golden, CO 80401 USA.	scostello@fs.fed.us			0	20	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1461-9555		AGR FOREST ENTOMOL	Agric. For. Entomol.	2011	NOV	13	4				373	393	20		835OG	CCC:000296045100005					2019-04-10J	Lane, VRMiller, KVCastleberry, SBCooper, RJMiller, DAWigley, TBMarsh, GMMihalco, RL	Lane, Vanessa R.; Miller, Karl V.; Castleberry, Steven B.; Cooper, Robert J.; Miller, Darren A.; Wigley, T. Bently; Marsh, Graham M.; Mihalco, Rebecca L.		Bird community responses to a gradient of site preparation intensities in pine plantations in the Coastal Plain of North Carolina	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird abundance, Forest management, Herbaceous weed control, Intensive forestry, North Carolina, Pinus taeda	UNITED-STATES, WILDLIFE HABITAT, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, FORESTS, PARTNERS, HERBICIDES, PIEDMONT	Although intensively managed pine forests are common in the southeastern US, few studies describe how combinations of mechanical (MSP) and chemical site preparation (CSP) and herbaceous weed control (HWC) techniques affect bird communities that use early successional habitats within young pine forests. Therefore, we examined effects of six treatments of increasing management intensity via combinations of MSP (strip-shear and wide spacing or roller chop and narrow spacing) and CSP (application or no application) treatments with banded or broadcast HWC on bird communities in six loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) plantations in the Coastal Plain of North Carolina, USA, for 8 years following site preparation. Wide pine spacing and strip-shear MSP increased bird abundance and species richness over narrow spacing and chopped MSP for 6 years after planting. Chemical SP reduced bird abundance in year 2, increased bird abundance in year 6, had no effect on abundance after year 7, and did not affect species richness in any year. Total bird abundance and species richness were similar between banded and broadcast HWC. Site preparation and HWC had no effect on bird diversity and bird communities were most similar in treatments of similar intensity. Site preparation and HWC had few or no effects on birds based upon migratory status, habitat association, or conservation value. The addition of chemical site preparation or HWC had little effect on birds beyond pine spacing, and bird abundance was not proportional to management intensity. Although we observed treatment effects, all treatments provided habitat used by a variety of bird species, and pine plantations may play an increasingly important role in bird conservation as forests become fragmented and converted to other land uses and as natural processes that create early successional habitat, such as fire, are suppressed. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Lane, VR; Miller, KV; Castleberry, SB; Cooper, RJ; Marsh, GM] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Miller, DA] Weyerhaeuser NR Co, Timberlands Technol, Columbus, MS 39704 USA; [Wigley, TB] Natl Council Air & Stream Improvement Inc, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Mihalco, RL] Wildlife Serv, USDA, Cleveland, OH 44181 USA	Lane, VR (reprint author), Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA.	lanev@warnell.uga.edu; kmiller@warnell.uga.edu; scastle@warnell.uga.edu; rcooper@warnell.uga.edu; darren.miller@weyerhaeuser.com; wigley@clemson.edu; gmarsh@warnell.uga.edu; Rebecca.L.Mihalco@aphis.usda.gov			0	15	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2011	NOV	262	9				1668	1678	11		831TV	CCC:000295754900002					2019-04-10J	Posa, MRC	Posa, Mary Rose C.		Peat swamp forest avifauna of Central Kalimantan, Indonesia: Effects of habitat loss and degradation	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Conservation, Southeast Asia, Peat, Threatened, Wetland	SOUTHEAST-ASIAN BIODIVERSITY, TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, DIPTEROCARP FOREST, BIRDS, BORNEO, FIRE, CONSERVATION, PEATLANDS, ABUNDANCE, SUMATRA	Peat swamp forest is a unique wetland ecosystem covering extensive areas in Southeast Asia that has received relatively little scientific attention and is now being lost at a rapid pace. This study examines the effects of anthropogenic degradation on bird communities in disturbed peat swamp forest Habitats - namely, intact logged forest, a degraded forest fragment, and non-forest regrowth - in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. Results show that species richness was significantly higher and species composition significantly different in intact logged forest in comparison to the degraded forest fragment and non-forested area. Nectarivore and tree foliage-gleaning insectivore abundance declined outside the intact forest, while the regrowth was dominated by the yellow vented bulbul, an open country insectivore-frugivore. Surveys reveal that large intact tracts of logged peat swamp forest can harbour threatened and near threatened bird species (36% of records) and thus play a role in their conservation, especially for a few habitat specialists. Given the extent of unmanaged degraded peatlands and continuing pressure to develop them, urgent conservation actions are needed to rehabilitate and protect this ecosystem. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	Natl Univ Singapore, Dept Biol Sci, Singapore 117543, Singapore	Posa, MRC (reprint author), Natl Univ Singapore, Dept Biol Sci, 14 Sci Dr 4, Singapore 117543, Singapore.	dbspmrc@nus.edu.sg	Posa, Mary Rose/H-8798-2012		2	36	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2011	OCT	144	10				2548	2556	9		823HE	CCC:000295112300019					2019-04-10J	Iverson, LRPrasad, AMMatthews, SNPeters, MP	Iverson, Louis R.; Prasad, Anantha M.; Matthews, Stephen N.; Peters, Matthew P.		Lessons Learned While Integrating Habitat, Dispersal, Disturbance, and Life-History Traits into Species Habitat Models Under Climate Change	ECOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	climate change, eastern United States, randomForest, statistical modeling, migration, trees, birds, DISTRIB, SHIFT, ModFacs	EASTERN UNITED-STATES, NORTHEASTERN CHINA, CHANGE SCENARIOS, PLANT MIGRATION, RANDOM FORESTS, CHANGE IMPACTS, RANGE SHIFTS, TREE, VEGETATION, DISTRIBUTIONS	We present an approach to modeling potential climate-driven changes in habitat for tree and bird species in the eastern United States. First, we took an empirical-statistical modeling approach, using randomForest, with species abundance data from national inventories combined with soil, climate, and landscape variables, to build abundance-based habitat models for 134 tree and 147 bird species. We produced lists of species for which suitable habitat tends to increase, decrease, or stay the same for any region. Independent assessments of trends of large trees versus seedlings across the eastern U.S. show that 37 of 40 species in common under both studies are currently trending as modeled. We developed a framework, ModFacs, in which we used the literature to assign default modification factor scores for species characteristics that cannot be readily assessed in such models, including 12 disturbance factors (for example, drought, fire, insect pests), nine biological factors (for example, dispersal, shade tolerance), and assessment scores of novel climates, long-distance extrapolations, and output variability by climate model and emission scenario. We also used a spatially explicit cellular model, SHIFT, to calculate colonization potentials for some species, based on their abundance, historic dispersal distances, and the fragmented nature of the landscape. By combining results from the three efforts, we can create projections of potential climate change impacts over the next 100 years or so. Here we emphasize some of the lessons we have learned over 16 years in hopes that they may help guide future experiments, modeling efforts, and management.	[Iverson, LR; Prasad, AM; Matthews, SN; Peters, MP] US Forest Serv, No Res Stn, Delaware, OH 43015 USA; [Matthews, SN] Ohio State Univ, Sch Environm & Nat Resources, Columbus, OH 43210 USA	Iverson, LR (reprint author), US Forest Serv, No Res Stn, 359 Main Rd, Delaware, OH 43015 USA.	liverson@fs.fed.us	Iverson, Louis/C-7554-2009; Matthews, Stephen/D-1050-2012; Peters, Matthew/	Iverson, Louis/0000-0001-9501-471X; Matthews, Stephen/0000-0001-9175-7778; Peters, Matthew/0000-0002-4793-0075	4	98	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	1432-9840		ECOSYSTEMS	Ecosystems	2011	SEP	14	6				1005	1020	16		817OI	CCC:000294683300011					2019-04-10J	Ricotta, CMoretti, M	Ricotta, Carlo; Moretti, Marco		CWM and Rao's quadratic diversity: a unified framework for functional ecology	OECOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Ecological gradient, Environmental filters, Functional convergence/divergence, Niche space, Trait dispersion, Trait mean	DISSIMILARITY COEFFICIENTS, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, TRAIT-CONVERGENCE, SPECIES RICHNESS, MULTIPLE TRAITS, LONG-TERM, PLANT, BIODIVERSITY, COMMUNITY, ENTROPY	Assessing the effects of environmental constraints on community structure often relies on methods that consider changes in species functional traits in response to environmental processes. Various indices have been proposed to measure relevant aspects of community trait composition from different viewpoints and perspectives. Among these, the 'community-weighted mean trait value' (CWM) and the Rao coefficient have been widely used in ecological research for summarizing different facets of functional composition and diversity. Analyzing changes in functional diversity of bee communities along a post-fire successional gradient in southern Switzerland we show that these two measures may be used to describe two complementary aspects of community structure, such as the mean and the dispersion of functional traits within a given species assemblage. While CWM can be adequately used to summarize shifts in mean trait values within communities due to environmental selection for certain functional traits, the Rao coefficient can be effectively applied to analyze patterns of trait convergence or divergence compared to a random expectation.	[Ricotta, C] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Moretti, M] Swiss Fed Res Inst WSL, Community Ecol Res Unit, CH-6500 Bellinzona, Switzerland	Ricotta, C (reprint author), Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy.	carlo.ricotta@uniroma1.it; marco.moretti@wsl.ch	Moretti, Marco/B-7257-2013; RICOTTA, Carlo/	Moretti, Marco/0000-0002-5845-3198; RICOTTA, Carlo/0000-0003-0818-3959	5	133	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0029-8549		OECOLOGIA	Oecologia	2011	SEP	167	1				181	188	8		807QE	CCC:000293914000018	21424717				2019-04-10J	Homyack, JAPaxton, BJWilson, MDWatts, BDMiller, DA	Homyack, Jessica A.; Paxton, Barton J.; Wilson, Michael D.; Watts, Bryan D.; Miller, Darren A.		Snags and Cavity-Nesting Birds within Intensively Managed Pine Stands in Eastern North Carolina, USA	SOUTHERN JOURNAL OF APPLIED FORESTRY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	cavity-nesting birds, dead wood dynamics, forest management, intensive forestry, loblolly pine, North Carolina, Pinus taeda, plantation, snag, silvicultural thinning	COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, DOUGLAS-FIR FORESTS, WESTERN OREGON, SIERRA-NEVADA, DYNAMICS, BIODIVERSITY, PLANTATIONS, COMMUNITIES, WASHINGTON, FLORIDA	Although snags are often considered to be a limiting factor for cavity-nesting birds within intensively managed pine (Pinus spp.) stands, there is little information regarding occurrences of snags and cavity-nesting birds for such stands in the southeastern United States. Therefore, during 2002-2003, we measured characteristics of individual snags (n = 1,218) and quantified the relative abundance of cavity-nesting birds (n = 204 observations; nine species) in 35 forest stands representing seven thinning classes (prior to thinning, three age classes following a first commercial thinning, and three age classes following a second commercial thinning entry) in intensively managed pine stands in eastern North Carolina. Snag populations were dynamic, with 649 snags falling and 75 new snags recruited between years. Stands in later thinning classes tended to have snags with larger diameters, less bark, and fewer limbs, and they were taller and more decayed (P < 0.05). Our data suggest that neither density of snags (P < 0.31) nor relative abundance of cavity-nesting birds (P = 0.25) differed strongly among thinning classes. Without active management, low recruitment coupled with the high loss rates that we observed could lead to low snag densities in older managed stands. Therefore, we suggest that forest managers consider retaining large-diameter dead or live trees as reserve trees through multiple rotations to increase or maintain snags in managed stands.	[Homyack, JA] Weyerhaeuser NR Co, Vanceboro, NC 28586 USA; [Paxton, BJ; Wilson, MD; Watts, BD] Coll William & Mary, Ctr Conservat Biol, Williamsburg, VA 23187 USA; [Miller, DA] Weyerhaeuser NR Co, Columbus, MS 39704 USA	Homyack, JA (reprint author), Weyerhaeuser NR Co, 1785 Weyerhaeuser Rd, Vanceboro, NC 28586 USA.	jessica.homyack@weyerhaeuser.com			0	14	SOC AMER FORESTERS	BETHESDA	5400 GROSVENOR LANE, BETHESDA, MD 20814 USA	http://www.safnet.org	0148-4419		SOUTH J APPL FOR	South. J. Appl. For.	2011	AUG	35	3				148	154	7		910OY	CCC:000301650300008					2019-04-10J	Hollenbeck, JPSaab, VAFrenzel, RW	Hollenbeck, Jeff P.; Saab, Victoria A.; Frenzel, Richard W.		Habitat Suitability and Nest Survival of White-Headed Woodpeckers in Unburned Forests of Oregon	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	nest survival, niche model, partitioned Mahalanobis distance, Picoides albolarvatus, ponderosa pine forests, remote sensing, white-headed woodpecker	SITE SELECTION, REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, LEWISS WOODPECKER, BURNED FORESTS, BIRDS, LANDSCAPE, MODELS, POPULATION, OCCUPANCY, PREDATION	We evaluated habitat suitability and nest survival of breeding white-headed woodpeckers (Picoides albolarvatus) in unburned forests of central Oregon, USA. Daily nest-survival rate was positively related to maximum daily temperature during the nest interval and to density of large-diameter trees surrounding the nest tree. We developed a niche-based habitat suitability model (partitioned Mahalanobis distance) for nesting white-headed woodpeckers using remotely sensed data. Along with low elevation, high density of large trees, and low slope, our habitat suitability model suggested that interspersion-juxtaposition of low-and high-canopy cover ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) patches was important for nest-site suitability. Cross-validation suggested the model performed adequately for management planning at a scale >1 ha. Evaluation of mapped habitat suitability index (HSI) suggested that the maximum predictive gain (HSI = 0.36), where the number of nest locations are maximized in the smallest proportion of the modeled landscape, provided an objective initial threshold for identification of suitable habitat. However, managers can choose the threshold HSI most appropriate for their purposes (e. g., locating regions of low-moderate suitability that have potential for habitat restoration). Consequently, our habitat suitability model may be useful for managing dry coniferous forests for white-headed woodpeckers in central Oregon; however, model validation is necessary before our model could be applied to other locations. (C) 2011 The Wildlife Society.	[Hollenbeck, JP; Saab, VA] USFS Rocky Mt Res Stn, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA	Hollenbeck, JP (reprint author), Oregon State Univ, USGS Forest & Rangeland Ecosyst Sci Ctr, 3200 SW Jefferson Way, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.	jhollenbeck@usgs.gov			0	30	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2011	JUL	75	5				1061	1071	11		794BZ	CCC:000292871600010					2019-04-10J	Ansell, FAEdwards, DPHamer, KC	Ansell, Felicity A.; Edwards, David P.; Hamer, Keith C.		Rehabilitation of Logged Rain Forests: Avifaunal Composition, Habitat Structure, and Implications for Biodiversity-Friendly REDD+	BIOTROPICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Asian biodiversity crisis, birds, clean development mechanism, habitat restoration, Kyoto protocol, REDD, silviculture	TROPICAL FOREST, LAND-USE, PROTECT BIODIVERSITY, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, AMAZONIAN FORESTS, UNDERSTORY BIRDS, TREEFALL GAPS, CONSERVATION, SABAH, DEFORESTATION	The inclusion of carbon stock enhancements under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) framework will likely drive a rapid increase in biosequestration projects that remove carbon from the atmosphere through rehabilitation of degraded primary rain forests. Such projects could also present an important opportunity to reverse losses of biodiversity from degraded rain forests, but concern has recently been expressed that management interventions to increase carbon stocks may conflict with biodiversity conservation. Focusing on a large-scale rain forest rehabilitation project in northern Borneo, we examine: (i) how intensive rehabilitation of selectively logged forests affected patterns of bird community composition and (ii) whether changes in vegetation structure explain observed shifts in avian guild structure and species composition. Bird composition differed between unlogged, naturally regenerating logged, and rehabilitated logged habitats, with the avifauna of rehabilitated forest more similar to that of naturally regenerating forest. Crucially, rehabilitation did not adversely affect either those species that declined after logging or those species that are IUCN Red Listed. Rehabilitation reduced the prevalence of vines and shrubs within regenerating forest, and across all habitats, the abundance and species richness of all birds and of obligate frugivores were positively related to vine prevalence. In contrast, the abundance and richness of frugivore-insectivore generalists and of salliers were negatively related to vines, suggesting that avifaunal responses to forest rehabilitation were attributable to liberation cutting of vines. Management intervention to increase carbon stocks had little adverse effect on avian biodiversity and we therefore argue that rain forest rehabilitation should play a strong role in future REDD+ agreements.	[Ansell, FA; Edwards, DP; Hamer, KC] Univ Leeds, Fac Biol Sci, Inst Integrat & Comparat Biol, Leeds LS2 9JT, W Yorkshire, England	Edwards, DP (reprint author), Princeton Univ, Woodrow Wilson Sch Publ & Int Affairs, Princeton, NJ 08544 USA.	dpedward@princeton.edu			1	63	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0006-3606		BIOTROPICA	Biotropica	2011	JUL	43	4				504	511	8	10.1111/j.1744-7429.2010.00725.x	793EV	CCC:000292804100016					2019-04-10J	Delaney, DKPater, LLCarlile, LDSpadgenske, EWBeaty, TAMelton, RH	Delaney, David K.; Pater, Larry L.; Carlile, Lawrence D.; Spadgenske, Eric W.; Beaty, Timothy A.; Melton, Robert H.		Response of Red-Cockaded Woodpeckers to Military Training Operations	WILDLIFE MONOGRAPHS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	behavioral response, flush, Fort Stewart, Georgia, military training, noise disturbance, Picoides borealis, red-cockaded woodpecker, sound recording, video surveillance, woodpecker weighting curve	BRAIN-STEM-RESPONSES, BUDGERIGARS MELOPSITTACUS-UNDULATUS, SOUTHERN FLYING SQUIRRELS, GENERALIZED LINEAR-MODELS, HUMAN DISTURBANCE, PICOIDES-BOREALIS, SOUND-PROPAGATION, RAT SNAKES, INTERSPECIFIC COMPETITION, BEHAVIORAL-RESPONSES	Military lands are a valuable resource in recovery of threatened, endangered, and at-risk species worldwide and have the highest density of threatened and endangered species of all major land management agencies in the United States. Many red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) that reside on federal lands occur on 15 military installations in the southeastern United States. This close association has increased concern over potential conflicts between conservation requirements of endangered species and the military's mission of combat readiness. Our objectives were to 1) determine if military training operations affect behavior, reproductive success, and productivity of red-cockaded woodpeckers; 2) develop a frequency-weighting function to assess woodpecker hearing sensitivity; 3) identify factors that affect woodpecker responses to military training operations; 4) develop distance and dose-response thresholds for quantifying woodpecker responses to noise levels and stimulus distances; 5) characterize military training operations through quantification of sound levels, source identification, distance from active woodpecker nests, frequency spectra, duration, and frequency of occurrence; and 6) document baseline woodpecker nesting behavior. We conducted our study on the Fort Stewart Military Installation located in southeast Georgia, USA. Downy woodpeckers, as surrogates for red-cockaded woodpeckers, had their best hearing sensitivity within the peak range of the power spectrum of both downy and red-cockaded woodpecker vocalizations, which is at a higher frequency than that of a typical passerine. Overall, woodpeckers had a reduced auditory sensitivity relative to human hearing sensitivity and other species of small birds, especially in the frequency range >4 kHz. Woodpeckers were most sensitive in the 1.5- to 4.0-kHz range. Sensitivity appeared to drop off quickly at frequencies <1.0 kHz and >4.0 kHz. Overall, we did not find that the woodpecker-frequency-weighting function we developed provided a better predictor of woodpecker flush response compared with A-weighting. More research is needed to better understand the relationship between frequency-weighting functions and woodpecker response behavior. Potential breeding groups of woodpeckers across the population increased from 158 in 1997 to 181 in 2000, wheras nesting groups increased from 141 in 1998 to 170 in 2000, for overall increases of 14.6% and 20.6%, respectively, over the 3 years of this project. Fledging success rates for individual nests within the overall population remained consistent from 1998 to 2000, averaging 84.4%. Mean clutch sizes for woodpecker groups for 1998 to 2000 ranged from 2.75 to 3.01 eggs/nest, brood size ranged from 2.01 to 2.22 nestlings/nest, whereas the average number of young fledged ranged from 1.57 to 1.76 young/occupied nest. We observed no difference in reproductive success or productivity between experimental and control-tested red-cockaded woodpecker groups. Overall, experimental test groups produced an average of 2.98 eggs/nest, 1.89 nestlings/nest, and 1.54 young/occupied nest from 1999 to 2000, compared with 2.73 eggs/nest, 1.91 nestlings/nest, and 1.57 young/occupied nest at control groups. We measured behavioral responses (nest attendance and arrivals and departures from the nest) of red-cockaded woodpeckers to military training events through direct and indirect (i.e., video surveillance) observation of 464.5 hours of woodpecker nesting behavior before and after controlled experimental events while recording and characterizing militry-generated sound events using sound-recording equipment. We presented woodpeckers with actual 0.50-caliber blank machine gun fire and artillery simulators from controlled distances to develop distance and sound thresholds. We used video surveillance to document potential behavioral responses of woodpeckers primarily during nonexperimental military training operations in areas that could not be safely monitored and to determine baseline woodpecker nesting behaviors. We recorded 2,846 nonexperimental military noise events in 157 data sessions at 50 red-cockaded woodpecker groups from 1998 to 2000. We also recorded 206 experimental tests at 58 woodpecker groups during 1999 and 2000. Life-table analyses of flush response time showed that at short ranges (15-30 m) the flush response was stronger for artillery simulator blasts than for blank fire in both the incubation and the nestling phases. In contrast, at medium distances (45-60 m) blank fire tended to produce more flush responses than artillery fire in both incubation and nestling phases. At longer distances (>60 m), blank fire and artillery produced similar flush responses in the incubation phase, whereas flush response was stronger for blank fire than for artillery in the nestling phase. In general, most animals that responded to military activity flushed within 5 seconds of the stimulus event. Woodpeckers returned to nests within an average of 4.4 minutes after being flushed by artillery simulators and 6.3 minutes after 0.50-caliber blank-fire tests. Woodpecker flush response rates increased as stimulus distance decreased and sound levels increased, regardless of stimulus type or year. Woodpeckers did not flush from nests when 0.50-caliber blank machine gun fire and artillery simulators were >152 m away and sound-exposure levels (decibels [dB]) were <68 dBW (woodpecker-based frequency-weighting curve) and <65 dBW, respectively. We found that blast treatments reduced arrival rates of adults at the nest, with the amount of reduction dependent on the type of blast stimulus and number of helpers at the nest. On the other hand, blast treatments had no detectable effects on nest attendance. The effect of blank fire on incubation-phase arrivals over a 30-minute interval (about 40% reduction) was nearly twice that of artillery simulator fire (about a 20% reduction). There was no evidence supporting any effect of stimulus type on arrivals during the nestling phase. Blast stimuli during incubation reduced arrivals by 40% when no helpers were present, but the strength of this effect decreased to 28% when one helper was present, and was only 6% for nests with >= 2 helpers. Distance of the blast from the nest did not affect the response of arrival rates to blast treatments. Infrequent, short-duration military training exercises, as measured, did not appear to substantially impact red-cockaded woodpecker reproductive success and productivity on the Fort Stewart Military Installation. Our results may be applicable to other military installations where similar training activities and intensity levels occur. Additional research is needed to address possible habituation or sensitization of red-cockaded woodpeckers to human activities in proximity to active nest sites.Although we attempted to monitor woodpecker response to a number of military training activities, other types of military training operations or human-based activities with louder noise, longer duration, incrased human presence, and greater frequency of occurrence could more negatively influence woodpecker nesting behavior and need to be investigated. Our results do not support the hypothesis that military maneuver training operations are limiting factors in the recovery of red-cockaded woodpeckers on military installations, based on our level and type of testing. Natural resource management policies on military installations have had a positive influence on the recovery of red-cockaded woodpeckers and probably outweigh the negative effects of typical military training. (C) 2011 The Wildlife Society.	[Delaney, DK; Pater, LL] USA, Engn Res & Dev Ctr, Construct Engn Res Lab, Champaign, IL 61826 USA; [Carlile, LD; Spadgenske, EW; Beaty, TA] Environm Div, Ft Stewart, GA 31314 USA	Delaney, DK (reprint author), USA, Engn Res & Dev Ctr, Construct Engn Res Lab, POB 9005, Champaign, IL 61826 USA.	david.delaney@erdc.usace.army.mil			4	67	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0084-0173		WILDLIFE MONOGR	Wildl. Monogr.	2011	JUL		177				1	38	38		794BM	CCC:000292869700001					2019-04-10J	Gardali, THolmes, AL	Gardali, Thomas; Holmes, Aaron L.		Maximizing Benefits from Riparian Revegetation Efforts: Local- and Landscape-Level Determinants of Avian Response	ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Birds, California, Landscape-scale, Local-scale, Restoration, Riparian, Sacramento River	HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, SACRAMENTO RIVER, SPATIAL SCALE, RESTORATION, BIRDS, FORESTS, CONSERVATION, DISPERSAL, PATTERNS, SUCCESS	With limited financial resources available for habitat restoration, information that ensures and/or accelerates success is needed to economize effort and maximize benefit. In the Central Valley of California USA, riparian habitat has been lost or degraded, contributing to the decline of riparian-associated birds and other wildlife. Active restoration of riparian plant communities in this region has been demonstrated to increase local population sizes and species diversity of landbirds. To evaluate factors related to variation in the rate at which bird abundance increased after restoration, we examined bird abundance as a function of local (restoration design elements) and landscape (proportion of riparian vegetation in the landscape and riparian patch density) metrics at 17 restoration projects within five project areas along the Sacramento River. We developed a priori model sets for seven species of birds and used an information theoretic approach to identify factors associated with the rate at which bird abundance increased after restoration. For six of seven species investigated, the model with the most support contained a variable for the amount of riparian forest in the surrounding landscape. Three of seven bird species were positively correlated with the number of tree species planted and three of seven were positively correlated with the planting densities of particular tree species. Our results indicate that restoration success can be enhanced by selecting sites near existing riparian habitat and planting multiple tree species. Hence, given limited resources, efforts to restore riparian habitat for birds should focus on landscape-scale site selection in areas with high proportions of existing riparian vegetation.	[Gardali, T; Holmes, AL] PRBO Conservat Sci, Terr Ecol Div, Petaluma, CA 94954 USA	Gardali, T (reprint author), PRBO Conservat Sci, Terr Ecol Div, 3820 Cypress Dr 11, Petaluma, CA 94954 USA.	tgardali@prbo.org			1	44	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0364-152X		ENVIRON MANAGE	Environ. Manage.	2011	JUL	48	1				28	37	10		778ZS	CCC:000291748500003	21590443				2019-04-10J	Rassam, GLatifi, NSoltani, AKamkar, B	Rassam, Ghorbanali; Latifi, Nasser; Soltani, Afshin; Kamkar, Behnam		Impact of crop management on weed species diversity and community composition of winter wheat fields in Iran	WEED BIOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	biodiversity, farming system, herbicide, species richness, weed diversity	BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, ORGANIC AGRICULTURE, BETA-DIVERSITY, ARABLE WEEDS, BIODIVERSITY, AGROECOSYSTEMS, VEGETATION, INTENSITY, ABUNDANCE, NITROGEN	The aim of this study was to assess the effects of crop management practices on the diversity, structure, and composition of weed communities. A total of 30 fields (15 fields each) in low-input and conventional farming systems were surveyed in north-eastern Iran. In the conventional cropping system, both mineral fertilizers and herbicides were applied, while in the low-input cropping system, the fertilizer was mainly manure and herbicides were avoided. The results showed that the pool of species, species richness, number of unique species, and Shannon's diversity index were greater in the low-input system than in the conventional system. Both cropping systems had more broad-leaved species than grasses and more annual species than perennial species. All the multivariate methods of analysis that were applied revealed that the weed community composition was significantly different between the two management types. The low-input cropping favored herbicide-susceptible broad-leaved weeds, legumes, and weeds with biodiversity value, whereas a high proportion of herbicide-tolerant grasses was found in the conventional fields. The results suggest that low-input cropping can sustain high weed diversity and abundance.	[Rassam, G; Latifi, N; Soltani, A; Kamkar, B] Gorgan Univ Agr Sci & Nat Resources, Dept Agron, Gorgan, Iran	Rassam, G (reprint author), Gorgan Univ Agr Sci & Nat Resources, Dept Agron, Gorgan, Iran.	rassammf@yahoo.com		Kamkar, Behnam/0000-0003-1309-8433	1	21	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1444-6162		WEED BIOL MANAG	Weed Biol. Manag.	2011	JUN	11	2				83	90	8		796XR	CCC:000293087300004					2019-04-10J	Youngman, JAGayk, ZG	Youngman, Joseph A.; Gayk, Zach G.		High Density Nesting of Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) in a Post-fire Great Lakes Jack Pine Forest	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology			A stand-replacing fire in 404 ha of jack pine (Pinus banksiana) and mixed pine forest in Michigan's Upper Peninsula in 2007 resulted in Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) nesting at high density in 2008, the second possible nesting season post-fire. Nests were found within a 93-ha study area and a 19-ha stand (a subset of the 93-ha study area) in 199.5 survey hours concentrated in March July. The 19-ha stand had six nests, a density of 0.31 nests/ha or 0.63 individuals/ha, while the 93-ha study area had 20 nests yielding 0.21 nests/ha or 0.42 individuals/ha. These nest densities are higher than previously reported in the literature for comparable stands, indicating a large influx of nesting woodpeckers post-fire. High nesting densities in this study may have resulted from: (1) optimal timing of the fire for wood-boring beetle exploitation of burned trees, (2) the discrete nature of burned habitat in the study due to impacts of salvage logging, or (3) our focus on regions of the burn where high nesting densities occurred, as the entire burned area (404 ha) was not included in nest density calculations. Received 23 April 2010. Accepted 28 December 2010.		Youngman, JA (reprint author), 36311 US Highway 41, Chassell, MI 49916 USA.	murphnj@up.net			0	14	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2011	JUN	123	2				381	386	6	10.1676/10-069.1	779KK	CCC:000291776300022					2019-04-10J	Zhang, QHan, RCZou, FS	Zhang, Qiang; Han, Richou; Zou, Fasheng		Effects of artificial afforestation and successional stage on a lowland forest bird community in southern China	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Avifaunal, Reforestation, Forest succession, Subtropics, Southern China	CANONICAL CORRESPONDENCE-ANALYSIS, OLD-GROWTH FORESTS, RAIN-FOREST, SPECIES RICHNESS, PENINSULAR MALAYSIA, COSTA-RICA, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, HABITAT DISTURBANCE, CONSERVATION VALUE, SECONDARY FOREST	To examine the relationship between forest succession after severe logging forestry practices and the composition of avian communities, we investigated how forest bird composition and guild structure change as a function of structural properties along a successional gradient, including a climax mature forest (>400 years), a rehabilitated mixed forest (50-70 years), and a disturbed Masson pine forest (70 years) of the Dinghushan Nature Reserve, Guangdong Province, China. Of a total of 51 resident species recorded, mixed forests hosted the highest numbers of individuals and species, reflecting the high species richness of both forest and non-forest species. For forest-dependent species, however, mature stands had the highest observed and estimated species richness. Of 6 habitat-use guilds identified, vertical-profile generalists and understory-birds formed the two dominant guilds, accounting for 54.0% and 38.7% of all individuals respectively. The results of canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) clearly showed that most forest-dependent species were associated with high proportions of native canopy cover and the mean density of dead trees and large trees, which are characteristic of old-growth mature forests ( horizontal heterogeneity) at stand level. Accordingly, conservation efforts should focus on the specialized requirements of the most habitat-restricted species in the future, especially for understory insectivores (Babblers) and large-tree users in mature subtropical monsoon forests of southern China. Moreover, since regenerating mixed forests are very similar to mature forests in both vegetation structure and bird community composition, we recommend that logging cycles (>50 years) be increased to a minimum of 50 years in southern China, so that a balance between economic and ecological interest can be reestablished. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Han, RC; Zou, FS] S China Inst Endangered Anim, Guangzhou 510260, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Q] Chinese Acad Sci, S China Bot Garden, Guangzhou 510650, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Q] Chinese Acad Sci, Grad Univ, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China	Zou, FS (reprint author), S China Inst Endangered Anim, 105 Xingang W Rd, Guangzhou 510260, Guangdong, Peoples R China.	zoufs@gdei.gd.cn			4	31	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2011	JUN	261	11				1738	1749	12	10.1016/j.foreco.2011.01.025	770YZ	CCC:000291125700004					2019-04-10J	Willcox, EVGiuliano, WM	Willcox, Emma V.; Giuliano, William M.		Avian community response to pine flatwoods management	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Abundance, Avian, Burning, Grazing, Roller chopping, Species richness	MECHANICAL SHRUB CONTROL, LONGLEAF PINE, SOUTH FLORIDA, HARDWOOD REDUCTION, POPULATION TRENDS, PRESCRIBED FIRE, NORTH-AMERICA, BIRD RESPONSE, VEGETATION, GRASSLAND	Across the southeastern United States, changing disturbance regimes threaten the integrity of pine flatwoods, reducing their suitability as habitat for a variety of avian species, many of which are considered of conservation priority. Prescribed burning and roller chopping are management practices widely used in pine flatwoods to control shrubs and increase the growth of herbaceous vegetation. However, the impacts these treatments have on this system and its associated avian communities are largely unknown. We examined the effects of prescribed burning and roller chopping on pine flatwoods avian communities using a paired sample approach. Avian communities were compared between treated (e.g., burned) and untreated areas. We considered abundance and richness of all birds, but also groups of conservation concern, and those likely impacted by seasonal management practices (e.g., breeding and non-breeding categories, and woodland, successional-scrub, and grassland guilds). Dormant season burning resulted in decreases in avian species richness and abundance within the non-breeding, overwintering community. In situations where the maintenance or enhancement of this avian group is desired, growing season burning appears beneficial and should be used in preference to dormant season burning. Growing season burning benefited breeding avian communities, resulting in increases in species richness and abundance within this group. Dormant season roller chopping had no effect on species richness or abundance of any avian category or guild. Increases in abundance within breeding avian communities were observed following growing season roller chopping and a roller chopping/burning combination. Grazing, did not mediate the effects of prescribed burning or roller chopping on avian species richness or abundance. The use of dormant season burning is likely inappropriate in situations where conservation and management of non-breeding, overwintering species is a priority. The use of growing season roller chopping appears to provide a potential treatment alternative in situations where positive effects on breeding species are desired. Overall, maintenance of avian abundance and richness may be best achieved through the diverse application of prescribed burning and roller chopping based on season, frequency, and space. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Willcox, EV; Giuliano, WM] Univ Florida, Dept Wildlife Ecol & Conservat, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA	Willcox, EV (reprint author), Univ Florida, Inst Food & Agr Sci, Cooperat Extens Serv, POB 219, Bronson, FL 32621 USA.	ewillcox@ufl.edu			4	44	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2011	JUN	261	11				1928	1935	8	10.1016/j.foreco.2011.02.017	770YZ	CCC:000291125700023					2019-04-10J	Nkwabi, AKSinclair, AREMetzger, KLMduma, SAR	Nkwabi, A. K.; Sinclair, A. R. E.; Metzger, K. L.; Mduma, S. A. R.		Disturbance, species loss and compensation: Wildfire and grazing effects on the avian community and its food supply in the Serengeti Ecosystem, Tanzania	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	arthropods, compensation, ecosystem function, grasslands, Serengeti birds	AFRICAN SAVANNA, BIRD DIVERSITY, FIRE, CONSERVATION, ABUNDANCE, AVIFAUNA	An important question in biodiversity studies is whether disturbances in ecosystems will cause a net loss of species or whether such losses can be compensated by replacement of other species. We use two natural disturbances, fire and grazing, to examine the response of bird and arthropod communities in grasslands of Serengeti, Tanzania. Both burning and grazing by migrant ungulates take place at the end of the rains in June-July. We documented the communities before disturbance, then 1, 4 and 20 weeks after disturbance on three replicate plots and compared them with three undisturbed plots. Birds were recorded by observation, arthropods from pitfall, tray trap and sweepnet samples. We expected that as the grass biomass was reduced by either disturbance, bird communities would change with concomitant change in arthropod food abundance. Alternatively, bird communities would change not with the absolute amount of food but with the greater accessibility of food as the grass structure changed from long to short grass. Results showed first that both bird species richness and abundance increased after both types of disturbance, but burnt sites showed a greater increase than that for grazed sites. Second, there was a change in bird species composition with disturbance. The functionally equivalent athi short-toed lark (Calandrella athensis) was replaced by the red-capped lark (Calandrella cinerea). Third, the abundance of most groups of arthropods was lower on disturbed sites than those on undisturbed sites, and the reduction of arthropod numbers was greatest on burnt sites. These results imply that bird abundance did not occur through an increase in arthropod abundance but rather through a change in the grass structure making food more accessible; and the higher predation could have caused the lower arthropod abundance. In addition, some bird species replaced others thus functionally compensating for their loss.	[Nkwabi, AK; Sinclair, ARE; Metzger, KL; Mduma, SAR] Tanzania Wildlife Res Inst, Serengeti Biodivers Program, Arusha, Tanzania; [Sinclair, ARE; Metzger, KL] Univ British Columbia, Ctr Biodivers Res, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada	Sinclair, ARE (reprint author), Tanzania Wildlife Res Inst, Serengeti Biodivers Program, Arusha, Tanzania.	sinclair@zoology.ubc.ca			0	57	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1442-9985		AUSTRAL ECOL	Austral Ecol.	2011	JUN	36	4				403	412	10		769YY	CCC:000291055400006					2019-04-10J	Summers, RWBuckland, ST	Summers, Ron W.; Buckland, Stephen T.		A first survey of the global population size and distribution of the Scottish Crossbill Loxia scotica	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		PARROT CROSSBILLS, PATTERNS, CURVIROSTRA, SCOTLAND, BRITAIN	A survey of Scottish Crossbills Loxia scotica was carried out in 3,506 km(2) of conifer woodland in northern Scotland during January to April 2008 to provide the first estimate of the global population size for this endemic bird. Population estimates were also made for Common Crossbills L. curvirostra and Parrot Crossbills L. pytyopsittacus within this range. Crossbills were lured to systematically selected survey points for counting, sexing and recording their calls for later call-type (species) identification from sonograms. Crossbills were located at 451 of the 852 survey points, and adequate tape-recordings made at 387 of these. The Scottish Crossbill had a disjunct distribution, occurring largely within the eastern part of the study area, but also in the northwest. Common Crossbills had a mainly westerly distribution. The population size of post-juvenile Scottish Crossbills was estimated as 13,600 (95% C.I. 8,130-22,700), which will approximate to 6,800 (4,065-11,350) pairs. Common Crossbills were more abundant within this range (27,100, 95% C.I. 14,700-38,400) and Parrot Crossbills rare (about 100). The sex ratio was not significantly different from parity for Scottish Crossbills. The modal number at survey points was two but numbers were larger in January than later in the survey. The numbers and distribution of all crossbill species are likely to vary between years, depending upon the size of the cone crops of the different conifers: all were coning in 2008. Common Crossbill and Parrot Crossbill numbers will also be affected by irruptions from continental Europe. A monitoring scheme is required to detect any population trend, and further work on their habitat requirement (e. g. conifer selection at different seasons) is needed to inform habitat management of native and planted conifer forests to ensure a secure future for this endemic bird.	[Summers, RW] Royal Soc Protect Birds Scotland, Inverness, Scotland; [Buckland, ST] Univ St Andrews, Ctr Res Ecol & Environm Modelling, St Andrews, Fife, Scotland	Summers, RW (reprint author), Royal Soc Protect Birds Scotland, Etive House,Beechwood Pk, Inverness, Scotland.	ron.summers@rspb.org.uk	Buckland, Stephen/A-1998-2012		2	15	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2011	JUN	21	2				186	198	13		769YP	CCC:000291054500006		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Phommexay, PSatasook, CBates, PPearch, MBumrungsri, S	Phommexay, Phansamai; Satasook, Chutamas; Bates, Paul; Pearch, Malcolm; Bumrungsri, Sara		The impact of rubber plantations on the diversity and activity of understorey insectivorous bats in southern Thailand	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Bat activity, Bat diversity, Echolocation call, Feeding buzz, Insect biomass, Rubber plantation, Tropical forest, Wing morphology	OIL PALM, MIST-NETS, POLLINATION ECOLOGY, EUCALYPTUS-GLOBULUS, ECHOLOCATION CALLS, CONSERVATION VALUE, BIRD COMMUNITIES, ACACIA-MEARNSII, HARP TRAPS, FOREST	Although a large proportion of tropical rain-forest in South-east Asia has been replaced by rubber plantations, there is very little information about the impact of such forest conversion on bat diversity. To address this deficiency, trapping and acoustic monitoring programmes were carried out in Ton Nga Chang and Khao Ban That wildlife sanctuaries in southern Thailand with the purpose of comparing species diversity and activity of understorey insectivorous bats at sites in forest and in nearby monoculture rubber plantations. Insect biomass in both habitats was assessed. Bat species diversity and activity were found to be much lower in rubber plantations than in forested areas and mean insect biomass was determined to be more than twice as high in the latter habitat than in the former. Bats utilising forest were shown to have significantly higher call frequencies but marginally lower wing loadings and aspect ratios than bats found in both habitats. Management strategies to increase biodiversity in rubber plantations are discussed.	[Phommexay, P; Satasook, C; Bumrungsri, S] Prince Songkla Univ, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, Hat Yai 90112, Songkla, Thailand; [Phommexay, P] Natl Univ Laos, Fac Forest, Viangchan, Lao Pdr, Laos; [Bates, P; Pearch, M] Ctr Systemat & Biodivers Res, Harrison Inst, Sevenoaks TN13 3AQ, Kent, England	Bumrungsri, S (reprint author), Prince Songkla Univ, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, Hat Yai 90112, Songkla, Thailand.	phommexay@gmail.com; harrisoninstitute@btopenworld.com; sara_psu@hotmail.com			5	59	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2011	JUN	20	7				1441	1456	16		765RL	CCC:000290726200005					2019-04-10J	Pryke, JSSamways, MJHockey, PAR	Pryke, James S.; Samways, Michael J.; Hockey, Philip A. R.		Persistence of the threatened Knysna warbler Bradypterus sylvaticus in an urban landscape: do gardens substitute for fire?	AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	arthropods, fire, food availability, Knysna warbler, urban conservation	PITFALL TRAP DIAMETER, SOUTH-AFRICA, INVERTEBRATE BIODIVERSITY, ANTS HYMENOPTERA, CAPE PENINSULA, TABLE MOUNTAIN, FOREST, CONSERVATION, FORMICIDAE, FOOD	Food resources can limit populations of insectivorous birds. Previous studies have shown strong correlations between bird population densities and their invertebrate food, with declining populations being attributed to loss of prey. This might also be the case for the threatened Knysna warbler (Bradypterus sylvaticus), which in the last 20 years has declined precipitously on the Cape Peninsula, South Africa. The bird is abandoning natural, protected forests, retreating to narrow belts of suburban, riverine woodland with dense, tangled understoreys. The potential invertebrate food availability in natural forests and suburban woodland was assessed against what is known of the bird's preferred prey. The invertebrate food resource spectrum and abundance were determined using three sampling techniques in both natural forest and suburban woodland. Despite greater overall abundance of invertebrates in suburban woodland, the warbler's preferred prey items were equally abundant in both habitats. This suggests that reduced food supply does not explain abandonment of natural forests by the warbler. Rather, it is concluded that the availability of suitable nesting substrata, which are more abundant in suburban woodland, has driven the biotope shift. This is an unusual case of a localized and threatened bird species faring better under transformed conditions than in natural habitats.ResumeLes ressources alimentaires peuvent limiter les populations d'oiseaux insectivores. Des etudes anterieures ont montre de fortes correlations entre la densite de populationsd'oiseaux et les invertebres qui leur servent de nourriture, le declin des populations etant attribuea la perte de la nourriture. Ceci pourrait aussi etre le cas de la fauvette de Knysna (Bradypterus sylvaticus) qui a decline tres rapidement sur la Peninsule de Cap, en Afrique du Sud, au cours des 20 dernieres annees. L'oiseau abandonne des forets naturelles protegees et se retire vers des ceintures de forets riveraines suburbaines, dont les etages inferieurs sont denses et touffus. La disponibilite potentielle des invertebres dont ces oiseaux se nourrissent fut evaluee dans des forets naturelles et dans des forets suburbaines en fonction de ce que l'on connait des preferences des oiseaux. On a determine le spectre et l'abondance des ressources en invertebres consommes en recourant a trois techniques d'echantillonnage dans les deux types de foret. Malgre une plus grande abondance generale d'invertebres dans la foret suburbaine, les proies preferees de la fauvette etaient aussi abondantes dans les deux habitats. Ceci laisse supposer que ce n'est pas un apport de nourriture reduit qui explique l'abandon de la foret naturelle par la fauvette. On en conclut plutot que c'est la disponibilite en substrats propices pour la nidification, qui sont plus abondants dans la foret suburbaine, qui a entraine le changement vers l'autre biotope. Ceci est un exemple inhabituel d'espece d'oiseau locale et menacee qui prospere mieux dans des conditions modifiees que dans des habitats naturels.	[Pryke, JS; Samways, MJ] Univ Stellenbosch, Fac AgriSci, Dept Conservat Ecol & Entomol, ZA-7600 Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Hockey, PAR] Univ Cape Town, Percy FitzPatrick Inst, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa	Pryke, JS (reprint author), Univ Stellenbosch, Fac AgriSci, Dept Conservat Ecol & Entomol, ZA-7600 Stellenbosch, South Africa.	Jpryke@sun.ac.za	Pryke, James/A-6644-2008; Samways, Michael J./	Pryke, James/0000-0003-3148-5744; Samways, Michael J./0000-0003-4237-6025	0	15	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0141-6707		AFR J ECOL	Afr. J. Ecol.	2011	JUN	49	2				199	208	10	10.1111/j.1365-2028.2010.01244.x	758NQ	CCC:000290171900007					2019-04-10J	Nappi, ADrapeau, P	Nappi, Antoine; Drapeau, Pierre		Pre-fire forest conditions and fire severity as determinants of the quality of burned forests for deadwood-dependent species: the case of the black-backed woodpecker	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH-REVUE CANADIENNE DE RECHERCHE FORESTIERE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences		CANADIAN BOREAL FOREST, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, CONIFER FORESTS, MONOCHAMUS-SCUTELLATUS, PICOIDES-ARCTICUS, HABITAT SELECTION, FORAGING ECOLOGY, SITE SELECTION, MANAGEMENT, SPRUCE	Burned forests represent high-quality habitats for many deadwood-dependent species. Yet, post-fire conditions may vary greatly within and among burns and thereby may affect habitat suitability for these species. We studied habitat selection of nesting black-backed woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus Swainson) in recently burned spruce-dominated boreal forests. Our objectives were to (i) identify factors involved in snag selection for both nesting and foraging and (ii) examine selection of nest sites within the burned landscape. A total of 92 nests and 1612 foraging observations were used to investigate snag selection. Our results show that both pre-fire forest conditions and fire severity are important in determining the quality of burned forests for black-backed woodpeckers. This species selected large snags for both nesting (>20 cm DBH) and foraging (>15 cm DBH). Woodpeckers selected deciduous and degraded "pre-fire" snags for nesting whereas black spruce snags that had been created by fire and that were moderately burned were preferred for foraging. Nest sites were concentrated in burned mature stands and supported higher densities of large snags (e. g., >15 cm DBH). Our results suggest that burned forest patches of at least 20 ha and composed mainly of burned mature and old-growth forests should be maintained during post-fire harvesting. The decrease in the amount of late seral stands in managed forest landscapes raises concerns about the future availability of high-quality burned forests for this species.	[Nappi, A; Drapeau, P] Univ Quebec, Dept Sci Biol, Ctr Etude Foret, Montreal, PQ H3C 3P8, Canada	Nappi, A (reprint author), Bur Forestier Chef, 845 Blvd St Joseph, Roberval, PQ G8H 2L6, Canada.	antoine.nappi@fec.gouv.qc.ca			2	33	CANADIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING, NRC RESEARCH PRESS	OTTAWA	1200 MONTREAL ROAD, BUILDING M-55, OTTAWA, ON K1A 0R6, CANADA	http://www.nrcresearchpress.com	0045-5067		CAN J FOREST RES	Can. J. For. Res.-Rev. Can. Rech. For.	2011	MAY	41	5				994	1003	10		775GI	CCC:000291446400009					2019-04-10J	Kozma, JM	Kozma, Jeffrey M.		COMPOSITION OF FOREST STANDS USED BY WHITE-HEADED WOODPECKERS FOR NESTING IN WASHINGTON	WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, BIRDS, FIRE, SELECTION, NORTHWEST, CAVITIES, ECOLOGY, HISTORY, CONIFER, OREGON	In this study I examined the composition of managed ponderosa pine (Pinta ponderosa) forests used by nesting White-headed Woodpeckers (Picoides albolarvatus) along the eastern slope of the Cascade Range in Washington. I sampled trees and snags using the point-centered quarter method to assess species composition, tree and snag density, and stand basal area in 16 forest stands containing White-headed Woodpecker nests. All stands had a history of timber management and 2 had been burned and salvage-logged. Mean live-tree density (>= 10.16 cm dbh) was 182.3 trees . ha(-1) (SE = 13.52), mean snag density (>= 10.16 cm (lbh) was 11.5 snags . ha(-1) (SE = 1.92), and mean stand basal area was 17.2 m(2) . ha(-1) (SE = 1..58). Ponderosa pine had the highest importance value ((x) over bar = 220.9, SE = 17.25) of any tree species in all but 2 stands. Mean dbh of ponderosa pines was 33.0 cm (SE = 0.26) and ranged from 26.1 to 50.2 cm within stands. Mean density of ponderosa pine was greatest in the 20.3-30.5 cm dbh size class and lowest in the 50.8-61.0 cm and >61.0 CM dbh)11 size classes. Tree density was up to 5.3 times greater than densities believed to be typical of ponderosa pine forests prior to fire suppression. Snag densities were within the range estimated for historical dry forests of the eastern Cascades, yet only 50% of all snags sampled had a dbh >25.4 cm. Although White-headed Woodpeckers are considered strongly associated with old-growth ponderosa pine, my results suggest that they may be more adaptable to using forests dominated by smaller diameter trees.	Yakama Nation Timber Fish & Wildlife, Fisheries Resource Management, Toppenish, WA 98948 USA	Kozma, JM (reprint author), Yakama Nation Timber Fish & Wildlife, Fisheries Resource Management, Box 151, Toppenish, WA 98948 USA.	kozj@yakamafish-nsn.gov			0	16	BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIV	PROVO	290 LIFE SCIENCE MUSEUM, PROVO, UT 84602 USA	http://www.lib.byu.edu/~nms/	1527-0904		WEST N AM NATURALIST	West. North Am. Naturalist	2011	APR	71	1				1	9	9	10.3398/064.071.0101	764BC	CCC:000290602400001					2019-04-10J	Benson, TJDinsmore, JJHohman, WL	Benson, Thomas J.; Dinsmore, James J.; Hohman, William L.		Short-term Effects of Burning and Disking on Songbird Use of Floodplain Conservation Easements	AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		DICKCISSEL SPIZA-AMERICANA, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, RIPARIAN HABITATS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, ABUNDANCE, FIRE, IOWA, ARTHROPODS, NORTHWEST, PARTNERS	Extensive conversion of Midwestern riparian areas for agricultural production has had many consequences including reduced habitat for nesting birds. However, more than 120,000 ha of riparian habitat have been restored in this region through USDA conservation programs. In 2001 and 2002, we assessed songbird responses to burning and disking for management of conservation easements in east-central Iowa. We randomly assigned herbaceous riparian fields to burning and disking treatments and collected data on density and species richness of songbirds in these habitats. Total density of grassland and wetland species and red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were reduced by burning in the first and second breeding seasons after burning; common yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas) density decreased with burning only in the first season. Disking led to increased density of grassland and wetland birds and greater overall avian conservation value on treated relative to untreated fields in the year after treatment. Changes associated with burning and disking treatments were likely related to changes in both vegetation structure and abundance of arthropod food resources. Despite decreased bird densities with burning, fire is a necessary management tool to control woody vegetation. Overall, both burning and disking appear to be effective management practices for maintaining herbaceous riparian habitats for grassland birds.	[Hohman, WL] Iowa State Univ, USDA, Nat Resources Conservat Serv, Wildlife Habitat Management Inst,Dept Nat Resourc, Ames, IA 50011 USA	Benson, TJ (reprint author), Illinois Nat Hist Survey, 1816 S Oak St, Champaign, IL 61820 USA.	tjbenson@gmail.com	Benson, Thomas/B-8526-2013	Benson, Thomas/0000-0002-7287-7499	2	19	AMER MIDLAND NATURALIST	NOTRE DAME	UNIV NOTRE DAME, BOX 369, ROOM 295 GLSC, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 USA	http://www.allenpress.com	0003-0031		AM MIDL NAT	Am. Midl. Nat.	2011	APR	165	2				257	273	17	10.1674/0003-0031-165.2.257	746DM	CCC:000289222700005					2019-04-10J	Brudvig, LADamschen, EI	Brudvig, Lars A.; Damschen, Ellen I.		Land-use history, historical connectivity, and land management interact to determine longleaf pine woodland understory richness and composition	ECOGRAPHY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, EXTINCTION DEBT, HABITAT LOSS, RESTORATION, DIVERSITY, RECOVERY, FRAGMENTATION, PRODUCTIVITY, COMMUNITIES, GRASSLANDS	Restoration and management activities targeted at recovering biodiversity can lead to unexpected results. In part, this is due to a lack of understanding of how site-level characteristics, landscape factors, and land-use history interact with restoration and management practices to determine patterns of diversity. For plants, such factors may be particularly important since plant populations often exhibit lagged responses to habitat loss and degradation. Here, we assess the importance of site-level, landscape, and historical effects for understory plant species richness and composition across a set of 40 longleaf pine Pinus palustris woodlands undergoing restoration for the federally endangered red-cockaded woodpecker in the southeastern United States. Land-use history had an overarching effect on richness and composition. Relative to historically forested sites, sites with agricultural histories (i.e. former pastures or cultivated fields) supported lower species richness and an altered species composition due to fewer upland longleaf pine woodland community members. Landscape effects did not influence the total number of species in either historically forested or post-agricultural sites; however, understory species composition was affected by historical connectivity, but only for post-agricultural sites. The influences of management and restoration activities were only apparent once land-use history was accounted for. Prescribed burning and mechanical overstory thinning were key drivers of understory composition and promoted understory richness in post-agricultural sites. In historically forested sites these activities had no impact on richness and only prescribed fire influenced composition. Our findings reveal complex interplays between site-level, landscape, and historical effects, suggest fundamentally different controls over plant communities in longleaf pine woodlands with varying land-use history, and underscore the importance of considering land-use history and landscape effects during restoration.	[Brudvig, LA] Michigan State Univ, Dept Plant Biol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Brudvig, LA] Washington Univ, Dept Biol, St Louis, MO 63130 USA; [Damschen, EI] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Zool, Madison, WI 53706 USA	Brudvig, LA (reprint author), Michigan State Univ, Dept Plant Biol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA.	brudvig@msu.edu	Damschen, Ellen/E-4919-2011	Damschen, Ellen/0000-0001-7435-0669	0	116	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0906-7590		ECOGRAPHY	Ecography	2011	APR	34	2				257	266	10		745EZ	CCC:000289150000008					2019-04-10J	Huth, NPossingham, HP	Huth, Neil; Possingham, Hugh P.		Basic ecological theory can inform habitat restoration for woodland birds	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Australian birds, explanatory model, habitat complexity score, management, policy, species richness model, species-area relationship	STAND STRUCTURAL COMPLEXITY, SPECIES-AREA RELATIONSHIPS, EASTERN AUSTRALIA, TEMPERATE WOODLANDS, SOUTHERN AUSTRALIA, EUCALYPT FORESTS, VEGETATION, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPES, DIVERSITY	P>1. Extensive clearing of native vegetation for agriculture has severely impacted upon Australia's biodiversity. Environmental tree planting, forestry and restoration of existing remnant patches provide ways for improving the matrix habitat value between larger conservation areas. However, improved guidelines are required to inform land managers on appropriate ways to design these areas when resources for habitat improvement are limited.2. We developed a simple habitat suitability model for woodland birds from two basic observations of ecology: (i) the species-area relationship and (ii) the relationship between bird species richness and vegetation structural diversity. The model provides a suite of species-area relationships for habitats of different structural diversity. Data from across Australia were used in developing the model to ensure its generality.3. A single species-area relationship for patches from 2 ha to 16 million ha was estimated for high-quality habitat patches using data from across mainland Australia. When this was combined with information on habitat complexity, the resultant species richness model was able to adequately describe the variation in woodland bird species richness within patches of various sizes (1-500 ha) in an independent data set from the Australian Capital Territory.4. The results from the model suggest that for small patches of high quality, increases in patch size or quality reap benefits whereas the marginal return in species richness for increasing patch size is almost negligible for low quality patches above 10 ha or high quality patches of 20 ha. For small patches of low quality, there is little benefit in increasing patch area and so quality should be improved. These results agree with recommendations obtained using various other techniques.5. Synthesis and applications. Investigation of the relationships embedded in the model provided similar recommendations for habitat restoration as determined by more detailed methods. The success of a simple combination of ecological principles linking area, structure and species richness supports the notion that existing basic theory can provide a sufficient basis for informing habitat restoration.	[Huth, N] CSIRO Ecosyst Sci, Toowoomba, Qld 4350, Australia; [Huth, N; Possingham, HP] Univ Queensland, Ctr Ecol, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia	Huth, N (reprint author), CSIRO Ecosyst Sci, POB 102, Toowoomba, Qld 4350, Australia.	neil.huth@csiro.au	CSIRO, SAF/H-3134-2013; Possingham, Hugh/B-1337-2008; Huth, Neil/F-7882-2010	Possingham, Hugh/0000-0001-7755-996X; Huth, Neil/0000-0002-4197-830X	0	26	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2011	APR	48	2				293	300	8	10.1111/j.1365-2664.2010.01936.x	734YI	CCC:000288379000003		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Swift, KIBell, FW	Swift, Kathie I.; Bell, F. Wayne		What are the environmental consequences of using silviculturally effective forest vegetation management treatments?	FORESTRY CHRONICLE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	boreal forest management, biodiversity, sustainable forest management, wildlife management	CANADIAN BOREAL FOREST, SOIL MICROBIAL BIOMASS, MECHANICAL SITE PREPARATION, PLANT-SPECIES DIVERSITY, BIRD COMMUNITIES, BRITISH-COLUMBIA, GLYPHOSATE HERBICIDE, MIXEDWOOD FOREST, WOODLAND CARIBOU, AMPHIBIAN LARVAE	In this paper, we present examples of stand-level consequences of using forest vegetation management treatments in boreal and temperate forest ecosystems in Canada. Specifically, we address several selected indicators: air and water quality, soils and nutrients, plant diversity, and wildlife habitat. For each of these, we discuss direct and indirect effects of five broad categories of treatments: (1) silviculture and harvesting systems and (2) physical, (3) thermal, (4) cultural, and (5) chemical/biological treatments. Our emphasis is on forest vegetation management treatments that are currently used in Canada to manage conifers. By applying regulations and best management practices, conducting landscape-level analyses and developing longer-term monitoring programs resource managers can minimize the effects of FVM treatments on the environmental indicators presented in this paper.	[Bell, FW] Ontario Minist Nat Resources, Ontario Forest Res Inst, Sault Ste Marie, ON P6A 2E5, Canada; [Swift, KI] FORREX Forum Res & Extens Nat Resources, Kelowna, BC V1Y 4N7, Canada	Bell, FW (reprint author), Ontario Minist Nat Resources, Ontario Forest Res Inst, 1235 Queen St E, Sault Ste Marie, ON P6A 2E5, Canada.	wayne.bell@ontario.ca			0	40	CANADIAN INST FORESTRY	MATTAWA	C/O CANADIAN ECOLOGY CENTRE, PO BOX 430, 6905 HWY 17 W, MATTAWA, ONTARIO P0H 1V0, CANADA	http://www.cif-ifc.org	0015-7546		FOREST CHRON	For. Chron.	2011	MAR-APR	87	2				201	216	16	10.5558/tfc2011-008	764RA	CCC:000290648800007					2019-04-10J	McIntyre, AFHeath, JA	McIntyre, Annie F.; Heath, Julie A.		Evaluating the effects of foraging habitat restoration on shorebird reproduction: the importance of performance criteria and comparative design	JOURNAL OF COASTAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Adaptive management, Charadriidae, Performance criteria, Foraging habitat, Piping Plover, Productivity	PIPING PLOVERS, BEACH NOURISHMENT, SITE SELECTION, NEW-YORK, ISLAND, SURVIVAL, SUCCESS, PRODUCTIVITY, MANAGEMENT, ATLANTIC	Coastal development and engineering projects preclude ecosystem processes that provide habitat for beach nesting birds. Management for coastal species may depend on actions that attempt to restore important habitat features and mitigate disturbance effects. However, species response to restoration or other management actions may be difficult to predict or measure. At Jones Beach State Park, on Long Island, New York, a 0.49 ha restoration project provided moist substrate foraging habitat for breeding Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) from 2002 to 2005. We examined whether foraging habitat restoration affected Piping Plover breeding population size, productivity, and fledgling production within 300 m of the restoration site. We found a positive relationship between habitat restoration and the number of fledglings produced per year. However, foraging habitat restoration did not significantly increase the number of Plover pairs breeding at Jones Beach. Our ability to evaluate restoration effects on Plovers depended on: 1) use of multiple performance criteria; 2) a design that allowed comparison of pre- and post-restoration data; and 3) a spatial control that allowed comparison of similar areas that were near and far from the restoration site. Despite the small size of the restoration project, there were measurable benefits to Plovers, indicating that foraging habitat restoration may be an effective tool for species recovery.	[Heath, JA] Boise State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [McIntyre, AF] Hofstra Univ, Dept Biol, Hempstead, NY 11549 USA; [McIntyre, AF] New York State Pk, Babylon, NY 11702 USA	Heath, JA (reprint author), Boise State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Boise, ID 83725 USA.	julieheath@boisestate.edu	Heath, Julie/D-5600-2011	Heath, Julie/0000-0002-9606-1689	0	40	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	1400-0350		J COAST CONSERV	J. Coast. Conserv.	2011	MAR	15	1				151	157	7	10.1007/s11852-010-0128-x	748BB	CCC:000289363900013					2019-04-10J	Joseph, GSCumming, GSCumming, DHMMahlangu, ZAltwegg, RSeymour, CL	Joseph, Grant S.; Cumming, Graeme S.; Cumming, David H. M.; Mahlangu, Zacheus; Altwegg, Res; Seymour, Colleen L.		Large termitaria act as refugia for tall trees, deadwood and cavity-using birds in a miombo woodland	LANDSCAPE ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Biodiversity of cavity-using birds, Ecosystem engineer, Landscape heterogeneity, Macrotermes, Resilience	MACROTERMES MICHAELSENI, NESTING BIRDS, SOUTH-AFRICA, ELEPHANTS, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, MANAGEMENT, ORGANISMS, DIVERSITY, COMMUNITY	Landscape heterogeneity can play an important role in providing refugia and sustaining biodiversity in disturbed landscapes. Large Macrotermes (Isoptera) termite mounds in miombo woodlands form nutrient rich islands that sustain a different suite of woody plant species relative to the woodland matrix. We investigated the role of termitaria in providing habitat for cavity-using birds in miombo woodlands that had been greatly impacted by elephants and fire, by comparing the availability of habitat favored by cavity-using birds (tall trees, trees with deadwood, and cavities) on and off mounds, and then testing its effect on species richness and abundance of cavity-using birds. We surveyed 48 termitaria paired with 48 woodland matrix sites in the breeding season; and 54 matrix-termitarium pairs in the non-breeding season in Chizarira National Park, Zimbabwe. Generalized linear mixed-effects models showed that termitaria harboured significantly higher densities (ha(-1)) of habitat components considered important for cavity nesting birds. Density of trees >6 m in height and incidence of trees with deadwood was nearly 10 times greater on mounds than in the matrix, and the density of cavities was nine times higher on mounds compared to the matrix. A model selection procedure showed that termitaria provided refugia for cavity-using birds and contributed to the resilience of bird communities through high on-mound densities of trees with deadwood. Large termitaria thus appear to play an important role in maintaining functionally important components of the avifauna in heavily impacted Miombo woodlands.	[Joseph, GS; Cumming, GS; Cumming, DHM] Univ Cape Town, PercyFitzpatrick Inst, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Cumming, DHM; Mahlangu, Z] Univ Zimbabwe, Trop Resource Ecol Programme, Dept Biol Sci, Harare, Zimbabwe; [Altwegg, R; Seymour, CL] Kirstenbosch Res Ctr, S African Natl Biodivers Inst, Appl Biodivers Res Div, ZA-7735 Claremont, South Africa	Joseph, GS (reprint author), Univ Cape Town, PercyFitzpatrick Inst, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa.	karoogrant@gmail.com	Cumming, Graeme/B-6551-2008; Seymour, Colleen/	Cumming, Graeme/0000-0002-3678-1326; Seymour, Colleen/0000-0002-6729-2576	2	42	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0921-2973		LANDSCAPE ECOL	Landsc. Ecol.	2011	MAR	26	3				439	448	10	10.1007/s10980-011-9572-8	740PY	CCC:000288808100011					2019-04-10J	Brooks, MEStouffer, PC	Brooks, Matthew E.; Stouffer, Philip C.		INTERSPECIFIC VARIATION IN HABITAT PREFERENCES OF GRASSLAND BIRDS WINTERING IN SOUTHERN PINE SAVANNAS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		RED-COCKADED WOODPECKERS, AVIAN COMMUNITY RESPONSE, BACHMANS SPARROW HABITAT, PITCHER PLANT BOGS, HOME-RANGE SIZE, HENSLOWS SPARROWS, FIRE, RESTORATION, ABUNDANCE, ECOSYSTEM	We studied wintering grassland bird communities in De Soto National Forest in southern Mississippi, USA to assess differences in bird communities and vegetation structure among different stand types. We also examined which vegetation structure and plant species predicted occurrence of Bachman's Sparrow (Peucaea aestivalis), Hens low's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii), and Sedge Wren (Cistothorus platensis). Bachman's Sparrows occurred only in uplands ((x) over bar = 0.5 birds/ha) and stands managed for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis; (x) over bar = 0.9 birds/ha), Hens low's Sparrows occurred only in bogs ((x) over bar = 3.8 birds/ha) and stands managed for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers ((x) over bar = 2.1 birds/ha), while Sedge Wrens occurred in all stand types ((x) over bar = 0.1-0.3 birds/ha). There were no significant differences among stand types in total bird densities for all three species combined. Dense, spatially uniform herbaceous cover and cover of Scleria muhlenbergii, a preferred food item in bogs, best predicted Hens low's Sparrow occurrence (39% s(2) explained). Increased woody understory vegetation and decreased tree density best predicted Sedge Wren occurrence (17% s(2) explained). Management for Hens low's Sparrows should focus on small-scale herbaceous ground-layer restoration in bogs. Bachman's Sparrows will respond more to thinning dense upland stands. Sedge Wrens and Bachman's Sparrows benefit from Red-cockaded Woodpecker management, whereas Hens low's Sparrow use of woodpecker stands is ephemeral. Received 6 March 2010. Accepted 9 September 2010.	[Brooks, ME; Stouffer, PC] Louisiana State Univ, Sch Renewable Nat Resources, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Brooks, ME; Stouffer, PC] LSU Agr Ctr, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA	Brooks, ME (reprint author), Louisiana State Univ, Sch Renewable Nat Resources, 227 RNR Bldg, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA.	mattebrooks@gmail.com			3	24	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2011	MAR	123	1				65	75	11	10.1676/10-039.1	734TB	CCC:000288360100007					2019-04-10J	Brudvig, LA	Brudvig, Lars A.		THE RESTORATION OF BIODIVERSITY: WHERE HAS RESEARCH BEEN AND WHERE DOES IT NEED TO GO?	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	conceptual model, historical contingency, landscape ecology, local interactions, regional species pool, restoration ecology	SPECIES-DIVERSITY, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, FOREST RESTORATION, CONSERVATION BIOLOGY, ECOSYSTEM FUNCTION, EARTHS ECOSYSTEMS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, OAK SAVANNAS, LAND-USE, LANDSCAPE	The practice of ecological restoration is a primary option for increasing levels of biodiversity by modifying human-altered ecosystems. The scientific discipline of restoration ecology provides conceptual guidance and tests of restoration strategies, with the ultimate goal of predictive landscape restoration. I construct a conceptual model for restoration of biodiversity, based on site-level (e. g., biotic and abiotic) conditions, landscape (e. g, interpatch connectivity and patch geometry), and historical factors (e. g., species arrival order and land-use legacies). I then ask how well restoration ecology has addressed the various components of this model. During the past decade, restoration research has focused largely on how the restoration of site-level factors promotes species diversity-primarily of plants. Relatively little attention has been paid to how landscape or historical factors interplay with restoration, how restoration influences functional and genetic components of biodiversity, or how a suite of less-studied taxa might be restored. I suggest that the high level of variation seen in restoration outcomes might be explained, at least in part, by the contingencies placed on site-level restoration by landscape and historical factors and then present a number of avenues for future research to address these often ignored linkages in the biodiversity restoration model. Such work will require carefully conducted restoration experiments set across multiple sites and many years. It is my hope that by considering how space and time influence restoration, we might move restoration ecology in a direction of stronger prediction, conducted across landscapes, thus providing feasible restoration strategies that work at scales over which biodiversity conservation occurs.	Michigan State Univ, Dept Plant Biol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA	Brudvig, LA (reprint author), Michigan State Univ, Dept Plant Biol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA.	brudvig@msu.edu			7	151	BOTANICAL SOC AMER INC	ST LOUIS	PO BOX 299, ST LOUIS, MO 63166-0299 USA	http://www.botany.org/	0002-9122		AM J BOT	Am. J. Bot.	2011	MAR	98	3				549	558	10	10.3732/ajb.1000285	734FU	CCC:000288320600026	21613146	Bronze			2019-04-10J	Zozaya, ELBrotons, LVallecillo, S	Zozaya, Elena L.; Brotons, Lluis; Vallecillo, Sara		Bird community responses to vegetation heterogeneity following non-direct regeneration of Mediterranean forests after fire	ARDEA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	conservation value, large fires, open-habitat bird species, Pinus nigra, regeneration patterns, shrubland	EMBERIZA-HORTULANA, NORTHEASTERN SPAIN, LANDSCAPE PATTERNS, CONIFER FORESTS, FARMLAND BIRDS, HOLM OAK, SUCCESSION, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, SHRUBLAND	Mediterranean forests are highly resilient to fires, showing a rapid recovery after disturbance. However, in some cases direct tree regeneration fails leading to radical changes in landscape composition. In this study, we evaluated the impact of landscape changes on the conservation value of bird species using the new landscape mosaic arising from non-direct regeneration after a fire. We used data from a large fire that occurred in central Catalonia (NE Spain) in 1998. The fire affected about 26,000 ha of a land mosaic mainly covered by Black Pine Pinus nigra forests and farmland dominated by cereal crops. We used line transects to estimate bird abundance and gathered information on dominant vegetation covers and landscape variables. Redundancy analysis (RDA) and generalized linear models were used to explore how the measured environmental variables explain bird species abundance and to analyze how post-fire heterogeneity in vegetation affected the conservation value of the bird community. Factors describing the main patterns in the post-fire landscape explained up to 31.2% of the total variability in bird community composition and described three main groups of bird species sharing similar ecological requirements. Additionally, 71% of the studied species significantly responded to one of the first three vegetation gradients distinguished in the study area. Finally, the conservation value of the bird community significantly decreased in areas dominated by Q. humilis resprouters and significantly increased in shrubland areas. Overall, our results suggest that large fires affecting non-direct regenerating forest types lead to a new and radically different mosaic landscape offering new opportunities to species with unfavourable European conservation status.	[Zozaya, EL; Brotons, L; Vallecillo, S] Forest Technol Ctr Catalonia, Biodivers Dept, Landscape Ecol Grp, Solsona 25280, Spain	Zozaya, EL (reprint author), Forest Technol Ctr Catalonia, Biodivers Dept, Landscape Ecol Grp, Ctra St Llorenc de Morunys Port Comte,Km 2, Solsona 25280, Spain.	elzozaya@gmail.com	Brotons, Lluis/D-1570-2009	Brotons, Lluis/0000-0002-4826-4457	2	18	NEDERLANDSE ORNITHOLOGISCHE UNIE	ZEIST	C/O PAUL STARMANS, OUDE ARNHEMSEWEG 261, 3705 BD ZEIST, NETHERLANDS		0373-2266		ARDEA	Ardea	2011	SPR	99	1				73	84	12	10.5253/078.099.0109	767AH	CCC:000290827200009					2019-04-10J	Cobb, TPMorissette, JLJacobs, JMKoivula, MJSpence, JRLangor, DW	Cobb, T. P.; Morissette, J. L.; Jacobs, J. M.; Koivula, M. J.; Spence, J. R.; Langor, D. W.		Effects of Postfire Salvage Logging on Deadwood-Associated Beetles	CONSERVATION BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	biological diversity, coarse woody debris, Coleoptera, saproxylic insects, deadwood, forest fire, forest management, Coleoptera	NORTH-CENTRAL ALBERTA, BOREAL FOREST, NATURAL-DISTURBANCE, HABITAT ASSOCIATIONS, SPECIES ASSEMBLAGES, SAPROXYLIC BEETLES, CLIMATE-CHANGE, FIRE, COLEOPTERA, WOOD	In Canada and the United States pressure to recoup financial costs of wildfire by harvesting burned timber is increasing, despite insufficient understanding of the ecological consequences of postfire salvage logging. We compared the species richness and composition of deadwood-associated beetle assemblages among undisturbed, recently burned, logged, and salvage-logged, boreal, mixed-wood stands. Species richness was lowest in salvage-logged stands, largely due to a negative effect of harvesting on the occurrence of wood- and bark-boring species. In comparison with undisturbed stands, the combination of wildfire and logging in salvage-logged stands had a greater effect on species composition than either disturbance alone. Strong differences in species composition among stand treatments were linked to differences in quantity and quality (e.g., decay stage) of coarse woody debris. We found that the effects of wildfire and logging on deadwood-associated beetles were synergistic, such that the effects of postfire salvage logging could not be predicted reliably on the basis of data on either disturbance alone. Thus, increases in salvage logging of burned forests may have serious negative consequences for deadwood-associated beetles and their ecological functions in early postfire successional forests.	[Cobb, TP] Royal Alberta Museum, Edmonton, AB T5N 0M6, Canada; [Morissette, JL] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E9, Canada; [Jacobs, JM; Koivula, MJ; Spence, JR] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E3, Canada; [Langor, DW] Canadian Forest Serv, No Forestry Ctr, Edmonton, AB T6H 3S5, Canada	Cobb, TP (reprint author), Royal Alberta Museum, Edmonton, AB T5N 0M6, Canada.	tyler.cobb@gov.ab.ca			1	37	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0888-8892		CONSERV BIOL	Conserv. Biol.	2011	FEB	25	1				94	104	11	10.1111/j.1523-1739.2010.01566.x	708QX	CCC:000286380500012	20735453				2019-04-10J	Yamaura, YRoyle, JAKuboi, KTada, TIkeno, SMakino, S	Yamaura, Yuichi; Royle, J. Andrew; Kuboi, Kouji; Tada, Tsuneo; Ikeno, Susumu; Makino, Shun'ichi		Modelling community dynamics based on species-level abundance models from detection/nondetection data	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	data augmentation, detection, nondetection data, detectability, functional group, hierarchical Bayesian modelling, monitoring, presence, absence data	BINOMIAL MIXTURE-MODELS, PRESENCE-ABSENCE, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, BIRD ABUNDANCE, RICHNESS, DETECTABILITY, CONSERVATION, OCCUPANCY, HABITATS, COUNTS	P>1. In large-scale field surveys, a binary recording of each species' detection or nondetection has been increasingly adopted for its simplicity and low cost. Because of the importance of abundance in many studies, it is desirable to obtain inferences about abundance at species-, functional group-, and community-levels from such binary data.2. We developed a novel hierarchical multi-species abundance model based on species-level detection/nondetection data. The model accounts for the existence of undetected species, and variability in abundance and detectability among species. Species-level detection/nondetection is linked to species-level abundance via a detection model that accommodates the expectation that probability of detection (at least one individuals is detected) increases with local abundance of the species. We applied this model to a 9-year dataset composed of the detection/nondetection of forest birds, at a single post-fire site (from 7 to 15 years after fire) in a montane area of central Japan. The model allocated undetected species into one of the predefined functional groups by assuming a prior distribution on individual group membership.3. The results suggest that 15-20 species were missed in each year, and that species richness of communities and functional groups did not change with post-fire forest succession. Overall abundance of birds and abundance of functional groups tended to increase over time, although only in the winter, while decreases in detectabilities were observed in several species.4. Synthesis and applications. Understanding and prediction of large-scale biodiversity dynamics partly hinge on how we can use data effectively. Our hierarchical model for detection/nondetection data estimates abundance in space/time at species-, functional group-, and community-levels while accounting for undetected individuals and species. It also permits comparison of multiple communities by many types of abundance-based diversity and similarity measures under imperfect detection.	[Yamaura, Y; Makino, S] Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Dept Forest Entomol, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058687, Japan; [Royle, JA] US Geol Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Laurel, MD 20708 USA; [Kuboi, K; Tada, T] NPO Sch Enjoying Nat Forests, Hitachi, Ibaraki 3160032, Japan; [Ikeno, S] Wild Bird Soc Japan, Ibaraki Branch, Mito, Ibaraki 3100002, Japan	Yamaura, Y (reprint author), Hokkaido Univ, Grad Sch Agr, Div Environm Resources, Kita Ku, Nishi 9,Kita 9, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0608589, Japan.	yamaura@for.agr.hokudai.ac.jp	Yamaura, Yuichi/A-3638-2012	Yamaura, Yuichi/0000-0001-9355-4413	1	51	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2011	FEB	48	1				67	75	9	10.1111/j.1365-2664.2010.01922.x	703RX	CCC:000286000100009		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Brumelis, GJonsson, BGKouki, JKuuluvainen, TShorohova, E	Brumelis, Guntis; Jonsson, Bengt Gunnar; Kouki, Jari; Kuuluvainen, Timo; Shorohova, Ekaterina		Forest Naturalness in Northern Europe: Perspectives on Processes, Structures and Species Diversity	SILVA FENNICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	natural forest, dead wood, biological diversity, disturbances	WOODLAND KEY HABITATS, GREEN-TREE RETENTION, BOREAL FORESTS, OLD-GROWTH, DEAD WOOD, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, EASTERN FENNOSCANDIA, SOUTHERN FINLAND, SPRUCE FORESTS, DYNAMICS	Saving the remaining natural forests in northern Europe has been one of the main goals to halt the ongoing decline of forest biodiversity. To facilitate the recognition, mapping and efficient conservation of natural forests, there is an urgent need for a general formulation, based on ecological patterns and processes, of the concept of "forest naturalness". However, complexity, structural idiosyncracy and dynamical features of unmanaged forest ecosystems at various spatio-temporal scales pose major challenges for such a formulation. The definitions hitherto used for the concept of forest naturalness can be fruitfully grouped into three dimensions: 1) structure-based concepts of natural forest, 2) species-based concepts of natural forest and 3) process-based concepts of natural forest. We propose that explicit and simultaneous consideration of all these three dimensions of naturalness can better cope with the natural variability of forest states and also aid in developing strategies for forest conservation and management in different situations. To become operational, criteria and indicators of forest naturalness need to integrate the three dimensions by combining species (e.g. red-listed-, indicator- and umbrella species) with stand and landscape level structural features that are indicative of disturbance and succession processes.	[Brumelis, G] Univ Latvia, Fac Biol, LV-1586 Riga, Latvia; [Jonsson, BG] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Nat Sci Engn & Math, Sundsvall, Sweden; [Kouki, J] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Joensuu, Finland; [Kuuluvainen, T] Univ Helsinki, Dept Forest Sci, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Shorohova, E] St Petersburg State Forest Acad, St Petersburg, Russia; [Shorohova, E] Finnish Forest Res Inst, Vantaa Res Unit, Vantaa, Finland	Brumelis, G (reprint author), Univ Latvia, Fac Biol, Kronvalda Bulv 4, LV-1586 Riga, Latvia.	guntis.brumelis@lu.lv	Kouki, Jari/B-6241-2008; Shorohova, Ekaterina/T-6181-2017; Brumelis, Guntis/	Kouki, Jari/0000-0003-2624-8592; Shorohova, Ekaterina/0000-0002-8238-927X; Brumelis, Guntis/0000-0002-8385-2553	2	71	FINNISH SOC FOREST SCIENCE-NATURAL RESOURCES INST FINLAND	VANTAA	PO BOX 18, FI-01301 VANTAA, FINLAND	http://www.metla.fi/silvafennica/	0037-5330		SILVA FENN	Silva. Fenn.	2011		45	5				807	821	15		899IO	CCC:000300809800003		Other Gold			2019-04-10J	Terauds, ABrumelis, GNikodemus, O	Terauds, Aivars; Brumelis, Guntis; Nikodemus, Olgerts		Seventy-year changes in tree species composition and tree ages in state-owned forests in Latvia	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Coniferous monocultures, fragmentation, landscape, protection network, tree species composition, young stands, forest history	SWEDISH BOREAL FOREST, PICEA-ABIES STANDS, SOUTHERN FINLAND, PINUS-SYLVESTRIS, DOMINATED LANDSCAPE, NORTHERN SWEDEN, FIRE HISTORY, FENNOSCANDIA, DISTURBANCE, DYNAMICS	During the last 100 years, forest management in Latvia has gradually become more and more focused on industrial logging, which can be expected to have affected the tree species composition and age distribution across the landscape. These changes need to be considered in forest management and conservation of biological diversity. The aim of the study was to use forest records to reconstruct the tree species composition and age distribution in the North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve in northern Latvia for the period, 1929-1941. These data were compared to a data-set from 2008, to determine the changes that transpired during a period of intensification of forest management. The silvicultural methods in the 1920-1941 period were based mostly on natural regeneration of logged stands. This led to succession to birch on harvested spruce stands and can explain the relatively large cover of mature birch stands today. After 1960, forest management was directed on conifer monocultures, and thus spruce stands today predominantly have age <50 years. An age class >150 years is almost absent for all species, and conservation should be directed to adding a portion of old forests to the protection network, and in maintaining the spatial continuity of overmature deciduous stands.	[Brumelis, G] Univ Latvia, Fac Biol, LV-1586 Riga, Latvia; [Terauds, A; Nikodemus, O] Univ Latvia, Fac Geog & Earth Sci, LV-1586 Riga, Latvia	Brumelis, G (reprint author), Univ Latvia, Fac Biol, Kronvalda Bulvaris 4, LV-1586 Riga, Latvia.	guntis.brumelis@lu.lv		Brumelis, Guntis/0000-0002-8385-2553	1	19	TAYLOR & FRANCIS AS	OSLO	KARL JOHANS GATE 5, NO-0154 OSLO, NORWAY	http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals	0282-7581		SCAND J FOREST RES	Scand. J. Forest Res.	2011		26	5				446	456	11		802LM	CCC:000293512700007					2019-04-10J	Bellia, ECampobello, DSara, M	Bellia, Enrico; Campobello, Daniela; Sara, Maurizio		Great tit (Parus major) breeding in fire-prone oak woods: differential effects of post-fire conditions on reproductive stages	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF WILDLAND FIRE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	disturbance event, Mediterranean, nest survival, successional stage, wildfire effects	ARTIFICIAL NEST PREDATION, SPECIES RICHNESS, TROPICAL FOREST, CONIFER FORESTS, BOREAL FOREST, SUCCESS, HABITAT, BIRDS, COMMUNITIES, OCCUPANCY	Wildfires negatively affect the overall reproductive success of several woodland avian species, but there is scarce information about which stages of the nesting cycle are specifically affected. We conducted a 3-year study to identify the effects of fire on the reproductive parameters of the great tit (Parus major) and the survival of its nests at different stages of the nesting cycle. We recorded the occupancy rate, clutch and brood size, hatching, fledging and nesting success in nest boxes placed on study plots with different post-fire age. By examining the post-fire succession, we analysed the survival of eggs and nestlings under predation risks. As the forest matured after a wildfire, tits occupied more nest boxes and laid more eggs that suffered less predation than in earlier successional stages. Although the incubation fate improved at each step of succession, the conditions to fully raise nestlings seemed to be suitable only in the oldest woods. Our findings indicate that the population dynamics of a reputed generalist avian species may be affected by fire. Furthermore, the effects of wildfires on stage-specific reproductive parameters show that an avian species that inhabits woodlands regains its full productivity only when its habitat has completely recovered from fire.	[Bellia, E; Campobello, D; Sara, M] Univ Palermo, Dept Environm Biol & Biodivers, I-90123 Palermo, Italy	Campobello, D (reprint author), Univ Palermo, Dept Environm Biol & Biodivers, Via Archirafi 18, I-90123 Palermo, Italy.	danielacampobello@hotmail.com	Sara, Maurizio/H-2662-2012; Campobello, Daniela/	Sara, Maurizio/0000-0003-4274-422X; Campobello, Daniela/0000-0003-4094-9395	0	7	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1049-8001		INT J WILDLAND FIRE	Int. J. Wildland Fire	2011		20	4				605	611	7		779TS	CCC:000291805700013					2019-04-10J	Perry, JJKutt, ASGarnett, STCrowley, GMVanderduys, EPPerkins, GC	Perry, J. J.; Kutt, A. S.; Garnett, S. T.; Crowley, G. M.; Vanderduys, E. P.; Perkins, G. C.		Changes in the avifauna of Cape York Peninsula over a period of 9 years: the relative effects of fire, vegetation type and climate	EMU			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	conservation, fire frequency, MAXENT, niche modelling, northern Australia, species richness, temporal variation	NORTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA, TROPICAL SAVANNA WOODLAND, NEOCHMIA-RUFICAUDA, GRANIVOROUS BIRDS, STAR FINCH, PATTERNS, MIGRATION, IMPACT, ASSEMBLAGES, LANDSCAPES	An essential component of conservation science is repeated surveys over time to monitor species that might be responding to local factors, such as land management, or more broadly to global change. A systematic survey of the avifauna of Cape York Peninsula was conducted in the late 1990s and early 2000s providing an ideal basal dataset for measuring change in the avifauna. A subset (n>600) of these sites, primarily within savanna landscapes, was selected for re-survey in 2008 to investigate changes in bird communities on Cape York Peninsula. Changes in mean species richness varied across the study area (decreases in 59 grid cells and increases in 43) with no apparent pattern. Significant change in reporting rates was recorded in 30 species. Four sedentary and highly detectable species declined (Bar-shouldered Dove, Brown Treecreeper, Sulphur-crested Cockatoo and Pale-headed Rosella) and five increased (Peaceful Dove, Pheasant Coucal, Weebill, White-throated Honeyeater and Yellow Oriole). Habitat preference for the species that showed change remained relatively stable between the two survey periods. Some species that were recorded in very low numbers in the original survey and are considered to be threatened (Brown Treecreeper, Black-faced Woodswallow) remained in very low numbers or decreased in our survey suggesting that there has been no regional recovery of these species. Long-term monitoring can describe important patterns of species change over time, though in the case of large, highly seasonal environments like the tropical savannas, signals of change may manifest over decades rather than annually.	[Perry, JJ; Kutt, AS; Vanderduys, EP; Perkins, GC] CSIRO Ecosyst Sci, Aitkenvale, Qld 4814, Australia; [Garnett, ST; Crowley, GM] Charles Darwin Univ, Casuarina, NT 0810, Australia	Perry, JJ (reprint author), CSIRO Ecosyst Sci, ATSIP Bldg,PMB PO, Aitkenvale, Qld 4814, Australia.	justin.perry@csiro.au	Perkins, Genevieve/D-3338-2011; Kutt, Alex/B-2020-2008; Garnett, Stephen/M-3877-2013; Perry, Justin/F-7740-2011	Kutt, Alex/0000-0001-9679-2206; Garnett, Stephen/0000-0002-0724-7060; Perry, Justin/0000-0002-5823-7364	1	28	CSIRO PUBLISHING	COLLINGWOOD	150 OXFORD ST, PO BOX 1139, COLLINGWOOD, VICTORIA 3066, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	0158-4197		EMU	Emu	2011		111	2				120	131	12		769RM	CCC:000291035900004					2019-04-10J	Blank, PJDively, GPGill, DERewa, CA	Blank, Peter J.; Dively, Galen P.; Gill, Douglas E.; Rewa, Charles A.		Bird Community Response to Filter Strips in Maryland	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	agriculture, birds, buffer, Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP), filter strip, Maryland	CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM, EASTERN NORTH-AMERICA, GRASSLAND BIRDS, HABITAT QUALITY, FIELDS, VEGETATION, MANAGEMENT, SHRUBLAND, MISSOURI, PARTNERS	Filter strips are strips of herbaceous vegetation planted along agricultural field margins adjacent to streams or wetlands and are designed to intercept sediment, nutrients, and agrichemicals. Roughly 16,000 ha of filter strips have been established in Maryland through the United States Department of Agriculture's Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program. Filter strips often represent the only uncultivated herbaceous areas on farmland in Maryland and therefore may be important habitat for early-successional bird species. Most filter strips in Maryland are planted to either native warm-season grasses or cool-season grasses and range in width from 10.7 m to 91.4 m. From 2004 to 2007 we studied the breeding and wintering bird communities in filter strips adjacent to wooded edges and non-buffered field edges and the effect that grass type and width of filter strips had on bird community composition. We used 5 bird community metrics (total bird density, species richness, scrub-shrub bird density, grassland bird density, and total avian conservation value), species-specific densities, nest densities, and nest survival estimates to assess the habitat value of filter strips for birds. Breeding and wintering bird community metrics were greater in filter strips than in non-buffered field edges but did not differ between cool-season and warm-season grass filter strips. Most breeding bird community metrics were negatively related to the percent cover of orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata) in >= 1 yr. Breeding bird density was greater in narrow (<30 m) compared to wide (>60 m) filter strips. Our results suggest that narrow filter strips adjacent to wooded edges can provide habitat for many bird species but that wide filter strips provide better habitat for grassland birds, particularly obligate grassland species. If bird conservation is an objective, avoid planting orchardgrass in filter strips and reduce or eliminate orchardgrass from filter strips through management practices. (C) 2011 The Wildlife Society	[Blank, PJ] Univ Maryland, Marine Estuarine Environm Sci Program, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Dively, GP] Univ Maryland, Dept Entomol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Gill, DE] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Rewa, CA] Nat Resources Conservat Serv, Beltsville, MD 20705 USA	Blank, PJ (reprint author), USGS Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, 12100 Beech Forest Rd, Laurel, MD 20708 USA.	blankpj@gmail.com			1	27	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2011	JAN	75	1				116	125	10	10.1002/jwmg.3	729GR	CCC:000287937200015					2019-04-10J	Comer, CEBell, ALOswald, BPConway, WCBurt, DB	Comer, Christopher E.; Bell, Andrea L.; Oswald, Brian P.; Conway, Warren C.; Burt, D. Brent		Vegetation and Avian Response to Prescribed Fire on Glade Habitats in the Missouri Ozarks	AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		BIRD COMMUNITY, FOREST, FRAGMENTATION, RESTORATION, ARKANSAS	Due to fire suppression and land use changes, Missouri glade habitats have undergone long-term declines in area and function leading to consequent declines in many bird species that rely on these habitats. We examined breeding bird species composition and vegetation community composition on three glade sites undergoing restoration with prescribed tire and compared them to three unburned glade sites and three unburned forest sites. Although we documented subtle changes in vegetation characteristics in response to prescribed fire, important structural characteristics, such as canopy cover (>55% at all study sites) and grass cover (<10% at all study sites) remain outside ranges used to characterize glades. Despite this, bird community structure shifted towards grass-shrubland (glade) birds (e.g., prairie warbler (Dendroica discolor), blue-winged warbler (Vermivora pinus), yellow-breasted chat (Icteria virens)) in glades that had been managed with prescribed tire. Using canonical correspondence analyses and stepwise forward logistic regression, we found that grass-shrubland (glade) birds were associated with habitat characteristics such as high stem density of small (0-6.3 cm diameter at breast height) trees, greater herbaceous cover, greater rock cover and a more open canopy. However, we did not detect any bird species historically associated with glades, such as Bachman's sparrow (Aimophila aestivalis) or field sparrow (Spizella pusilla) on any study sites but did frequently detect red-eyed vireos (Vireo olivaceous) on all sites. Short term application of prescribed fire has not yet produced functionally restored glades. Long term applications of prescribed fire, used in conjunction with mechanical and/or chemical removal of woody overstory, are necessary to achieve restoration at these sites.	[Comer, CE; Bell, AL; Oswald, BP; Conway, WC] Stephen F Austin State Univ, Arthur Temple Coll Forestry & Agr, Nacogdoches, TX 75962 USA; [Burt, DB] Stephen F Austin State Univ, Dept Biol, Nacogdoches, TX 75962 USA	Comer, CE (reprint author), Stephen F Austin State Univ, Arthur Temple Coll Forestry & Agr, Nacogdoches, TX 75962 USA.	comerce@sfasu.edu			2	29	AMER MIDLAND NATURALIST	NOTRE DAME	UNIV NOTRE DAME, BOX 369, ROOM 295 GLSC, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 USA	http://www.allenpress.com	0003-0031		AM MIDL NAT	Am. Midl. Nat.	2011	JAN	165	1				91	104	14	10.1674/0003-0031-165.1.91	716KH	CCC:000286967000007					2019-04-10J	Bescond, HFenton, NJBergeron, Y	Bescond, Herve; Fenton, Nicole J.; Bergeron, Yves		Partial harvests in the boreal forest: Response of the understory vegetation five years after harvest	FORESTRY CHRONICLE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Quebec, Picea mariana, harvest, variable retention, sustainable forest management, understory, structural retention, vegetation	NORTHERN HARDWOOD FORESTS, GREEN-TREE RETENTION, PLANT-COMMUNITIES, DISTURBANCE SEVERITY, NORTHWESTERN QUEBEC, BIRD COMMUNITIES, SPRUCE STANDS, OLD-GROWTH, CANADA, PATTERNS	In the eastern boreal forest of Canada long fire cycles allow for a significant portion of stands to become old growth. These old-growth boreal forest stands are subjected to secondary disturbances that create uneven structure, which supports a variety of types of organisms. In order to maintain the proportion of stands with uneven structure on the landscape, partial cuts have been suggested as a management technique that could create or maintain these uneven structures. This study compares the effects of partial and low-retention harvests and un-harvested control on understory plants in four sites five years after harvest. The relative abundance of species was examined by a habitat group. While richness did not vary among treatments, increasing severity of harvest favoured pioneer species that prefer disturbed mineral soil and high light levels. Sites with thicker organic layers that were harvested in the winter were significantly less impacted by both partial and lowr-etention harvest. Canopy opening alone had little impact in the three most northern sites. As old-growth black spruce forests are open by nature, this suggests that soil perturbation is a bigger driver of community change after harvest than proportion of canopy removed for this forest type.	[Bescond, H; Fenton, NJ; Bergeron, Y] Univ Quebec, UQAT UQAM Natl Sci & Engn Res Council Ind Chair, Rouyn Noranda, PQ J9X 5E4, Canada	Bescond, H (reprint author), Univ Quebec, UQAT UQAM Natl Sci & Engn Res Council Ind Chair, 445 Boul Univ, Rouyn Noranda, PQ J9X 5E4, Canada.	herve.bescond@uqat.ca		Fenton, Nicole/0000-0002-3782-2361	1	22	CANADIAN INST FORESTRY	MATTAWA	C/O CANADIAN ECOLOGY CENTRE, PO BOX 430, 6905 HWY 17 W, MATTAWA, ONTARIO P0H 1V0, CANADA	http://www.cif-ifc.org	0015-7546		FOREST CHRON	For. Chron.	2011	JAN-FEB	87	1				86	98	13	10.5558/tfc87086-1	728WC	CCC:000287904200018					2019-04-10J	Wells, KBohm, SMBoch, SFischer, MKalko, EKV	Wells, Konstans; Boehm, Stefan M.; Boch, Steffen; Fischer, Markus; Kalko, Elisabeth K. V.		Local and landscape-scale forest attributes differ in their impact on bird assemblages across years in forest production landscapes	BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Birds, Forest fragmentation, Habitat-association modelling, Hierarchical state-space, Landscape attributes, Multiple-scale effects, Random forest classifier, Species turnover, Silviculture	DYNAMIC OCCUPANCY MODELS, HABITAT FRAGMENTATION, SPECIES RICHNESS, HIERARCHICAL APPROACH, BOREAL FOREST, DIVERSITY, HETEROGENEITY, GROWTH, METAPOPULATIONS, PERSPECTIVES	Forest management practices and forest fragmentation are commonly recognised as factors influencing species distribution and diversity, but it remains largely unknown how species turnover and fluctuations across years might affect generalisations from short-term predictions. There is also much uncertainty about how compositional heterogeneity within forests, through their partitioning into differently managed stands, influences species occurrence and diversity. We aimed to investigate bird species richness in different forest stands in a heterogeneous landscape and asked whether short-term studies commonly used are sufficient to describe diversity habitat relationships.Breeding birds were monitored in 50 stands of differing forest types and management regimes in 2008 and 2009 in the heterogeneous forest production landscape of the Schwabische Alb in SW Germany. Based on a database of 25 and 21 species observed in 2008 and 2009, respectively, we estimated local species richness and species turnover with Bayesian hierarchical multi-species occupancy models to account for imperfect detection. A suite of forest attributes at stand level (from local field inventories) and landscape level, between 100 and 2000 in in extent, which were derived from forest management maps, were screened for their explanatory power regarding bird species richness. The most meaningful variables were included in a final set of models to account for effects of forest attributes on species occurrence and resulting gradients in species richness and turnover.Bird species richness in 2008 was mostly explained by stand composition heterogeneity over a distance of 800 m around sample locations, whereas in 2009 local stand features like stand succession type and stand age mostly explained species richness. Species turnover was significantly higher in young forest stands of thicket and pole-wood stages compared with old forest stands of timber stages.Variable multi-scale impacts of forest attributes on local species richness and turnover, together with year-to-year fluctuations in the regional species pool, emphasise that the relative importance of local versus landscape-scale factors in determining bird species richness may vary across years. Long-term and multiple-scale investigations that take structural and compositional forest heterogeneity into account are necessary for improved prediction of species habitat relationships.	[Wells, K] Biodivers & Climate Res Ctr BiKF, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Wells, K; Bohm, SM; Kalko, EKV] Univ Ulm, Inst Expt Ecol, D-89081 Ulm, Germany; [Boch, S; Fischer, M] Univ Bern, Inst Plant Sci, CH-3013 Bern, Switzerland; [Boch, S; Fischer, M] Univ Bern, Oeschger Ctr Climate Change Res, CH-3013 Bern, Switzerland; [Kalko, EKV] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Balboa, Panama	Wells, K (reprint author), Biodivers & Climate Res Ctr BiKF, Senckenberganalage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany.	konstans.wells@uni-ulm.de	Wells, Konstans/A-7232-2010; Boch, Steffen/L-5436-2016; Biodiversity & Climate Res Ctr, BiK-F/C-4266-2012; Fischer, Markus/C-6411-2008	Wells, Konstans/0000-0003-0377-2463; Fischer, Markus/0000-0002-5589-5900	3	34	ELSEVIER GMBH, URBAN & FISCHER VERLAG	JENA	OFFICE JENA, P O BOX 100537, 07705 JENA, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	1439-1791		BASIC APPL ECOL	Basic Appl. Ecol.	2011		12	2				97	106	10	10.1016/j.baae.2011.01.002	762TA	CCC:000290502800001					2019-04-10J	Lindenmayer, DBCunningham, RB	Lindenmayer, D. B.; Cunningham, R. B.		Longitudinal patterns in bird reporting rates in a threatened ecosystem: Is change regionally consistent?	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Long-term patterns, Australian woodland birds, Biodiversity, Temperate woodland	AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, LONG-TERM, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, SPECIES RICHNESS, FARMLAND BIRDS, CONSERVATION, BIODIVERSITY, FRAGMENTATION, WOODLANDS, HETEROGENEITY	Work in many parts of the world has discussed the decline of biodiversity in regions dominated by agriculture. We report the results of a major study documenting the longitudinal profiles of birds between 1998 and 2009 within 66 patches of temperate woodland in a heavily cleared and grazed agricultural region of south-eastern Australia. Many researchers have forecast the loss of bird biota from this region and others that also were formerly dominated by temperate woodland.We had sufficient high quality data to analyse the longitudinal profiles of reporting rates for 76 of the 116 individual bird species recorded in our 12-year study. Unexpectedly, only four of the 76 species analysed (5.6%) exhibited a significant negative linear decrease in reporting rate. More surprisingly, 32 (42.1%) exhibited a significant positive linear increase in reporting rate, including several taxa of conservation concern. These increases occurred despite a series of below-average rainfall years. Reporting rates were too low to formally model long-term trends in some other bird species widely considered to be of conservation concern such as the Diamond Firetail (Stagonopleura guttata) and Speckled Warbler (Chthonicola sagittata).Many authors have used functional (and other) groups to forecast bird species likely to be lost from Australia's temperate woodlands. However, we found no clear links between life history attributes and long-term trend patterns of species.Our findings contrast with recent findings from other temperate woodland-dominated regions in eastern Australia where losses in bird populations have been documented. However, they parallel other investigations such as in central New South Wales. These similarities among, and differences between, studies suggest regional differences in temporal patterns in bird population dynamics. Many of the observed changes in reporting rates were positive and they provide hope that forecast future losses of a large proportion of existing temperate woodland bird assemblages in south-eastern Australia may not be realised uniformly in all regions. (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	[Lindenmayer, DB; Cunningham, RB] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia	Lindenmayer, DB (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	david.lindenmayer@anu.edu.au	Lindenmayer, David/P-7183-2017	Lindenmayer, David/0000-0002-4766-4088	2	22	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2011	JAN	144	1				430	440	11	10.1016/j.biocon.2010.09.029	719AA	CCC:000287168100047					2019-04-10J	Maracahipes, LLenza, EMarimon, BSde Oliveira, EAPinto, JRRMarimon, BH	Maracahipes, Leandro; Lenza, Eddie; Marimon, Beatriz Schwantes; de Oliveira, Edmar Almeida; Rodrigues Pinto, Jose Roberto; Marimon Junior, Ben Hur		Structure and floristic composition of woody vegetation in cerrado rupestre in the Cerrado-Amazonian Forest transition zone, Mato Grosso, Brazil	BIOTA NEOTROPICA			Portuguese	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Cerrado-Amazon boundaries, phytosociology, Erythroxylum suberosum, savanna, Eastern Mato Grosso	BIODIVERSITY, CONSERVATION	This study aimed to analyze the floristic composition and the structure of a savanna on rocky soil ("cerrado rupestre") woody vegetation (including monocots and lianas) in the Cerrado-Amazon Forest transition zone located at Parque Municipal do Bacaba, Nova Xavantina, State of Mato Grosso (14 degrees 41' S and 52 degrees 20' W), and compare it with other cerrado stricto sensu studies. Ten 20 x 50 m plots were randomly established, within which all live and dead woody plants with at least 3 cm of trunk diameter at 30 cm above ground level (DSH(30) >= 3 cm) were measured. The cerrado rupestre showed high density (3,766 live individuals), richness (85 species, 67 genera and 34 families) and basal area (15.72 m(2)ha(-1)), as well as high levels of Shannon-Wiener species diversity (H' = 3.47) and evenness (J = 0.78) indices. The most important species were Erythroxylum suberosum, Qualea parviflora, Anacardium occidentale, Kielmeyera rubriflora and Vatairea macrocarpa. The greatest floristic similarity found between typical cerrado and "cerrado rupestre" communities from lower altitude areas of Northeastern Mato Grosso suggest that, in this region, altitude and geographical distance influence the species composition, regardless of the substrate. The community presented unimodality in the heights distribution and is mostly compounded by shrubby individuals with height < 3 m and DSH < 5 cm. We suggest that floristic and phytosociological studies conducted in "cerrado rupestre" should adopt DSH 3 cm and include monocot and liana species, so as to more realistically represent the vegetation richness, species composition and structure. The high species richness and diversity registered in this study might be related to this "cerrado rupestre" pre-Amazonian location, which emphasizes the importance of "Parque do Bacaba" maintenance as a guarantee of its biological diversity protection.	[Maracahipes, L; Lenza, E; Marimon, BS; de Oliveira, EA; Marimon, BH] Univ Estado Mato Grosso UNEMAT, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Conservacao, BR-78690000 Nova Xavantina, MT, Brazil; [Pinto, JRR] Univ Brasilia UnB, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Florestais, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil	Maracahipes, L (reprint author), Univ Estado Mato Grosso UNEMAT, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Conservacao, Campus Nova Xavantina,CP 08, BR-78690000 Nova Xavantina, MT, Brazil.	lmaracahipes@gmail.com	Maracahipes, Leandro/F-8674-2012; Marimon, Beatriz/J-6389-2012; Marimon Junior, Ben Hur/E-7330-2013; Lenza, Eddie/E-7232-2013	Maracahipes, Leandro/0000-0002-6148-3291; Marimon, Beatriz/0000-0003-3105-2914; Lenza, Eddie/0000-0001-9139-5949	0	22	REVISTA BIOTA NEOTROPICA	CAMPINAS	AV. DR. ROMEU TORTIMA, 388 - BARAO GERALDO, CEP 13084-520, CAMPINAS, SP, BRAZIL		1676-0611		BIOTA NEOTROP	Biota Neotrop.	2011	JAN-MAR	11	1				133	141	9	10.1590/S1676-06032011000100013	836SI	CCC:000296131000014		DOAJ Gold			2019-04-10J	Pike, DAWebb, JKShine, R	Pike, David A.; Webb, Jonathan K.; Shine, Richard		Removing forest canopy cover restores a reptile assemblage	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	abundance, broad-headed snake, field experiment, fire suppression, habitat quality, habitat use, Hoplocephalus bungaroides, rock outcrop, southeastern Australia, species richness, vegetation overgrowth	RETREAT-SITE SELECTION, HOPLOCEPHALUS-BUNGAROIDES SERPENTES, BIRD SPECIES-DIVERSITY, SHRUB ENCROACHMENT, RAIN-FOREST, HABITAT STRUCTURE, HOT ROCKS, FIRE, SAVANNA, IMPACT	Humans are rapidly altering natural systems, leading to changes in the distribution and abundance of species. However, so many changes are occurring simultaneously (e. g., climate change, habitat fragmentation) that it is difficult to determine the cause of population fluctuations from correlational studies. We used a manipulative field experiment to determine whether forest canopy cover directly influences reptile assemblages on rock outcrops in southeastern Australia. Our experimental design consisted of three types of rock outcrops: (1) shady sites in which overgrown vegetation was manually removed (n = 25); (2) overgrown controls (n = 30); and (3) sun-exposed controls (n = 20). Following canopy removal, we monitored reptile responses over 30 months. Canopy removal increased reptile species richness, the proportion of shelter sites used by reptiles, and relative abundances of five species that prefer sun-exposed habitats. Our manipulation also decreased the abundances of two shade-tolerant species. Canopy cover thus directly influences this reptile assemblage, with the effects of canopy removal being dependent on each species' habitat preferences (i.e., selection or avoidance of sun-exposed habitat). Our study suggests that increases in canopy cover can cause declines of open-habitat specialists, as previously suggested by correlative studies from a wide range of taxa. Given that reptile colonization of manipulated outcrops occurred rapidly, artificially opening the canopy in ecologically informed ways could help to conserve imperiled species with patchy distributions and low vagility that are threatened by vegetation overgrowth. One such species is Australia's most endangered snake, the broad-headed snake (Hoplocephalus bungaroides).	[Pike, DA; Webb, JK; Shine, R] Univ Sydney, Sch Biol Sci A08, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia	Pike, DA (reprint author), Univ Sydney, Sch Biol Sci A08, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.	david.pike22@gmail.com	Pike, David/B-2032-2012	Pike, David/0000-0002-6121-5449	0	44	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2011	JAN	21	1				274	280	7	10.1890/09-2394.1	741FW	CCC:000288850200023	21516904				2019-04-10J	Brazill-Boast, JDessmann, JKDavies, GTOPryke, SRGriffith, SC	Brazill-Boast, James; Dessmann, Josephine K.; Davies, Gareth T. O.; Pryke, Sarah R.; Griffith, Simon C.		Selection of breeding habitat by the endangered Gouldian Finch (Erythrura gouldiae) at two spatial scales	EMU			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	cavity nesting, conservation, habitat suitability, nest-site selection, resource limitation	YINBERRIE HILLS AREA, NORTHERN AUSTRALIA, TROPICAL SAVANNA, CONSERVATION BIOLOGY, GRANIVOROUS BIRDS, TREE COVER, FIRE, FORESTS, SITES, ECOLOGY	The Gouldian Finch (Erythrura gouldiae) has experienced significant decline in population and the extent of its range over the past 40 years, which has generally been attributed to the availability of suitable foraging habitat. Less research, however, has investigated the suitability or availability of breeding habitat of the species. Gouldian Finches are obligate cavity nesters, and a recent study has shown that they select nest-sites non-randomly based on structural characteristics of the cavity. Here we investigated the relative effects of different environmental factors on the spatial distribution of Gouldian Finch nests at two different scales. At the broader, landscape scale (over similar to 60 km(2)), the strongest predictor of nesting density at a site was the abundance of suitable nest-sites. At the finer scale (similar to 1 km(2)), no single factor explained the variation in location of nest-sites. Gouldian Finches require areas of habitat characterised by high densities of suitable nest-sites (tree-cavities). Within these patches, individuals are potentially selecting nest-sites based on the morphometry of cavities rather than landscape features such as topography, vegetation or proximity to water. Our findings should be integrated with studies of feeding and habitat requirements in the non-breeding season, with the aim of constructing holistic and predictive habitat-suitability models for this endangered species.	[Brazill-Boast, J; Dessmann, JK; Davies, GTO; Pryke, SR; Griffith, SC] Macquarie Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia	Brazill-Boast, J (reprint author), NSW Off Environm & Heritage, Landscapes & Ecosyst Conservat Branch, Conservat Strategy Unit, POB A290, Sydney S, NSW 1232, Australia.	james.brazillboast@environment.nsw.gov.au	Griffith, Simon/A-1996-2010; Pryke, Sarah/G-7484-2011	Griffith, Simon/0000-0001-7612-4999; 	1	23	CSIRO PUBLISHING	COLLINGWOOD	150 OXFORD ST, PO BOX 1139, COLLINGWOOD, VICTORIA 3066, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	0158-4197		EMU	Emu	2011		111	4				304	311	8		854UC	CCC:000297519000004					2019-04-10J	Clavero, MBrotons, LHerrando, S	Clavero, Miguel; Brotons, Lluis; Herrando, Sergi		Bird community specialization, bird conservation and disturbance: the role of wildfires	JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	conservation value, Mediterranean landscapes, niche breadth, niche position, rarity	MEDITERRANEAN LANDSCAPES, ECOLOGICAL SPECIALIZATION, BIOTIC HOMOGENIZATION, FIRE, RESPONSES, FRAGMENTATION, BIOGEOGRAPHY, GENERALISTS, OCCUPANCY, GRADIENTS	P>1. Although niche theory predicts that disturbance should favour generalist species, the community-level implications of this pattern have been sparsely analysed. Here, we test the hypothesis that disturbance favours generalist species within communities, analysing effects of wildfires in bird communities in a Mediterranean climate area as a case study.2. We use bird occurrence data in more than 500 1 x 1 km squares forming a gradient running from forest to completely burnt areas. The level of specialization of bird communities was estimated by means of three complementary species specialization indices, calculated for different landscape gradients and averaged at the community level (i.e. 1 x 1 km squares), and mean species rarity.3. We also calculated mean habitat preferences along landscape gradients, as well as an index of conservation value and total species richness.4. Different estimators of bird community specialization varied in contrasting fashion along the wildfire disturbance gradient, and thus we conclude that it is not justified to expect unique community responses to the sharp variations in habitat characteristics brought by wildfire disturbances.5. Burnt areas tended to have rarer and urban-avoider bird species, whereas unburnt forests tended to have larger proportions of forest specialist species.6. The mean conservation value of communities clearly increased towards the burnt extreme of the wildfire disturbance gradient, while this had a negligible effect on species richness.7. Wildfires seem to play an important role for the maintenance of open-habitat, urban-avoider bird populations in Mediterranean landscapes and also to benefit a set of bird species of unfavourable European conservation status.8. In this context, it cannot be unambiguously concluded that fire disturbance, even in a context in which fires are greatly favoured by human-related activities, leads to more functionally simplified communities dominated by generalist species.	[Clavero, M; Brotons, L] Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Area Biodiversitat, Grp Ecol Paisatge, Solsona 25280, Catalonia, Spain; [Clavero, M] Univ Girona, Dept Ciencies Ambientals, Girona 17071, Catalonia, Spain; [Brotons, L; Herrando, S] Tech Off, Catalan Ornithol Inst, E-08037 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain	Clavero, M (reprint author), Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Area Biodiversitat, Grp Ecol Paisatge, Carretera Vella St Llorenc de Morunys,Km 2, Solsona 25280, Catalonia, Spain.	miguelito.clavero@gmail.com	Clavero, Miguel/A-9040-2015; Brotons, Lluis/D-1570-2009	Clavero, Miguel/0000-0002-5186-0153; Brotons, Lluis/0000-0002-4826-4457	4	37	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8790		J ANIM ECOL	J. Anim. Ecol.	2011	JAN	80	1				128	136	9	10.1111/j.1365-2656.2010.01748.x	691WD	CCC:000285110600013	20831729	Bronze			2019-04-10J	Stighall, KRoberge, JMAndersson, KAngelstam, P	Stighall, Kristoffer; Roberge, Jean-Michel; Andersson, Kjell; Angelstam, Per		Usefulness of biophysical proxy data for modelling habitat of an endangered forest species: The white-backed woodpecker Dendrocopos leucotos	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Conservation planning, deciduous forest, Dendrocopos leucotos, edge habitats, habitat suitability, land-use history, remote sensing	BIALOWIEZA FOREST, BOREAL FORESTS, CONSERVATION, LANDSCAPES, GROWTH, POLAND, LAND, FINLAND, STANDS	Efficient conservation planning in managed forest landscapes requires knowledge about the location of functional habitat for specialised species. We explored the importance of different variables to predict habitat suitability for the white-backed woodpecker (Dendrocopos leucotos Bechstein), a proposed umbrella species in deciduous forest. Specifically, we tested whether biophysical proxy variables indicating management intensity and the occurrence of natural processes constituted a useful complement to traditional remotely sensed data on tree species composition and forest stand age for modelling the woodpecker's habitat. Presence-absence of the woodpecker during the study period (1986-2006) in southwestern Sweden was explained by the area of edge habitats (forest bordering water or farmland) and wetland forest, and location relative to the historical marine limit. The number of years with occurrence of the woodpecker in a territory was explained by the area of forest bordering water and wetland forest. Among traditional forest variables, the area of deciduous forest had a strong positive effect on both woodpecker presence-absence and the number of years with occurrence. The results support the hypothesis that edge habitats and forest types subject to natural processes favouring deciduous trees and dead wood creation are valuable to the woodpecker and should be prioritised in conservation planning.	[Stighall, K] Swedish Soc Nat Conservat, SE-11691 Stockholm, Sweden; [Stighall, K] Univ Orebro, Sch Sci & Technol, Orebro, Sweden; [Roberge, JM] Swedish Univ Agr Sci SLU, Fac Forest Sci, Dept Wildlife Fish & Environm Studies, Umea, Sweden; [Roberge, JM; Andersson, K; Angelstam, P] Swedish Univ Agr Sci SLU, Fac Forest Sci, Sch Forest Management, Skinnskatteberg, Sweden	Stighall, K (reprint author), Swedish Soc Nat Conservat, Box 4625, SE-11691 Stockholm, Sweden.	kristoffer.stighall@naturskyddsforeningen.se	Roberge, Jean-Michel/C-2953-2008	Roberge, Jean-Michel/0000-0003-4149-5137	2	35	TAYLOR & FRANCIS AS	OSLO	KARL JOHANS GATE 5, NO-0154 OSLO, NORWAY	http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals	0282-7581		SCAND J FOREST RES	Scand. J. Forest Res.	2011		26	6				576	585	10	10.1080/02827581.2011.599813	827BK	CCC:000295400300007					2019-04-10J	Heyman, EGunnarsson, BStenseke, MHenningsson, STim, G	Heyman, E.; Gunnarsson, B.; Stenseke, M.; Henningsson, S.; Tim, G.		Openness as a key-variable for analysis of management trade-offs in urban woodlands	URBAN FORESTRY & URBAN GREENING			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Social & Behavioral Sciences (SBS)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY, ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES, GEOGRAPHY & DEVELOPMENT	Environmental Sciences & Ecology; Geography	Biodiversity, Goal conflict, Multiple-use, Recreation, Trade-off, Understory density	SAPROXYLIC BEETLE ASSEMBLAGES, FOREST MANAGEMENT, GREEN SPACE, MULTICRITERIA ANALYSIS, LANDSCAPE PREFERENCES, VEGETATION DENSITY, PUBLIC PREFERENCES, SPECIES RICHNESS, BREEDING BIRDS, DEAD WOOD	There is currently increasing pressure on urban woodland in industrialised countries. Management of such areas is shifting towards multiple-use with focus on both recreation and biodiversity conservation. We examined the concept of "openness" as part of a possible tool for planners and decision makers. Our field studies were conducted in oak-dominated urban woodlands in southern Sweden with the focus on understory density. In a field experiment we found that understory density was greatly influenced by management, but effects appeared to be site-dependent. Photographs from the field sites were shown to panels of students to analyse recreational preferences in relation to openness. The photographs showed similar woodland types but with different understory density, although the quantification of this variation was not revealed to the participants. In general, open forests were considered most attractive for recreation but 74% of the respondents claimed that they preferred a mix of open and closed forest. Frequent forest visitors preferred relatively closed forests but infrequent visitors liked more open forests. As an example of management effects on biodiversity, we examined the density and diversity of woodland birds in relation to the management. We found that bird densities decreased in the plots with extensive removal of understory. We suggest that variables related to openness can be used in the planning process, especially at fine-grained scales, to analyse different management options and make trade-offs between interests in multiple-use woodland sites. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	[Heyman, E; Stenseke, M; Henningsson, S] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Human & Econ Geog, Sch Business Econ & Law, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden	Heyman, E (reprint author), Univ Gothenburg, Dept Human & Econ Geog, Sch Business Econ & Law, Box 461, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden.	erik.heyman@dpes.gu.se			0	52	ELSEVIER GMBH, URBAN & FISCHER VERLAG	JENA	OFFICE JENA, P O BOX 100537, 07705 JENA, GERMANY	http://www.elsevier.com	1618-8667		URBAN FOR URBAN GREE	Urban For. Urban Green.	2011		10	4				281	293	13		867MY	CCC:000298459700005					2019-04-10J	Gould, SF	Gould, Susan F.		Does post-mining rehabilitation restore habitat equivalent to that removed by mining? A case study from the monsoonal tropics of northern Australia	WILDLIFE RESEARCH			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bauxite mining, bird assemblages, chronosequence, Eucalyptus tetrodonta, habitat restoration, northern Australia, post-mining rehabilitation	LONG-TERM TRENDS, WESTERN-AUSTRALIA, BAUXITE MINES, VEGETATION SUCCESSION, JARRAH FOREST, LAND, RECOLONIZATION, DIVERSITY, SECONDARY, PATTERNS	Context. Rehabilitation is increasingly being promoted as a strategy for minimising and even reversing biodiversity loss. Many rehabilitation strategies that aim to provide habitat focus entirely on establishing vegetation. Successful vegetation establishment, however, does not necessarily provide habitat that is ecologically equivalent to that removed by vegetation clearing. Quantitative understanding of faunal responses to rehabilitation is required if rehabilitation techniques are to be refined and deliver desired biodiversity outcomes.Aims. I aimed to assess the extent to which post-mining rehabilitation restores bird habitat equivalent to that removed in the mining process on the Weipa bauxite plateau.Methods. The composition, abundance and richness of bird assemblages were compared between native forest sites and a 23-year chronosequence of post-mining rehabilitation sites. Native forest sites were made up of three Weipa bauxite plateau land units, including the land unit that represents pre-mining native forest, and two land units that are considered to be potential analogues for the post-mining landscape.Key results. Bird abundance and bird species richness increased with rehabilitation age. Bird species richness in the two oldest age classes of mine rehabilitation was similar to values obtained from pre-mining native forest and post-mining landscape analogue sites. The composition of bird assemblages, however, was significantly different. Of all the bird species observed, 25% occurred exclusively in native forest sites, 19% occurred exclusively in mine-rehabilitation sites, and the remaining 56% were recorded in both native forest and mine-rehabilitation sites. Site bird-detection rates were significantly related to site vegetation structure, with inter-specific differences in bird response.Conclusions. Post-mining rehabilitation at Weipa has partially made up for the loss of habitat caused by clearing for mining. Twenty-three years after rehabilitation commenced, however, a clear residual impact on biodiversity remains, with a third of native forest birds absent from mine rehabilitation, including several native forest specialists.Implications. Rehabilitation can partially make up for biodiversity losses caused by the initial loss of habitat. There is no evidence, however, that rehabilitation can achieve 'no net loss'. Reliance on rehabilitation to achieve conservation outcomes does not address the fact that many fauna species require resources that are found only in mature forest.	Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia	Gould, SF (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, GPO Box 4, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.	sue.gould@anu.edu.au			0	64	CSIRO PUBLISHING	COLLINGWOOD	150 OXFORD ST, PO BOX 1139, COLLINGWOOD, VICTORIA 3066, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1035-3712		WILDLIFE RES	Wildl. Res.	2011		38	6				482	490	9		846RU	CCC:000296921700004					2019-04-10J	Delahaye, LMonticelli, DLehaire, FRondeux, JClaessens, H	Delahaye, Laurence; Monticelli, David; Lehaire, Francois; Rondeux, Jacques; Claessens, Hugues		FINE-SCALE HABITAT SELECTION BY TWO SPECIALIST WOODPECKERS OCCURRING IN BEECH AND OAK-DOMINATED FORESTS IN SOUTHERN BELGIUM	ARDEOLA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	beech, Dendrocopos major, D. medius, D. minor, forest management, oak, wildlife-habitat model	MIDDLE SPOTTED WOODPECKER, DENDROCOPOS-MEDIUS, INVENTORY DATA, BIRD, CONSERVATION, PREFERENCES, SWITZERLAND, INDICATORS, MANAGEMENT, MOUNTAINS	Fine-scale habitat selection by two specialist woodpeckers occurring in beech and oak-dominated forest in Southern Belgium.We studied the identification of key habitat parameters for two specialist woodpecker species (middle spotted woodpecker Dendrocopos medius and lesser spotted woodpecker D. minor) associated with mature broadleaved forests ecosystems in Europe, and the modelling of their specific requirements with a view to assist forest managers. The study was conducted in four beech and oak-dominated forests (Haut-Fays, Halma, Gembes and Croix-Scaille) located in the Ardennes Region of Southern Belgium. The study sites covered a total area of ca. 20 km(2). A census of woodpecker occurrence (presence-absence) was implemented from 2000 to 2003 within 255 I-ha plots. Habitat variables describing stand age, tree density, snag density, stand composition and vertical vegetation structure were also sampled at the same plots to develop both logistic and autologistic regression models describing habitat use. Middle spotted woodpecker (MSW) uses the oak-rich locations (mean basal area of 15.6 m(2)/ha), with selection of areas with the largest, oldest oak trees (mean circumference > 150 cm), and with a high diversity of tree species in the overstory. Similarly, the lesser spotted woodpecker (LSW) was detected in areas presenting the highest percentage cover of oak trees but with a selection of younger stands, with a high density of snags and dead wood (mean of 9 m(3)/ha). The integration of an autocorrelation term improved model performance for the LSW but not for MSW. Our results highlight the importance of a high disponibility of oak trees for these two sympatric species. The climax forest in northwest Europe is beech so that public and private owners must develop appropriate forest management plans to prevent the conversion of oak to beech forests. In particular, forest managers can promote an active oak	[Delahaye, L; Monticelli, D; Lehaire, F; Rondeux, J; Claessens, H] Gembloux Agr Univ, Unit Forest & Nat Management, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium	Claessens, H (reprint author), Gembloux Agr Univ, Unit Forest & Nat Management, 2 Passage Deportes, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium.	hugues.claessens@ulg.ac.be			2	27	SOC ESPANOLA ORNITOLGIA	MADRID	MELQUIADAS BIENCINTO 34, E-28053 MADRID, SPAIN		0570-7358		ARDEOLA	Ardeola	2010	DEC	57	2				339	362	24		710IB	CCC:000286503400008					2019-04-10J	Segarra-Moragues, JGOjeda, F	Gabriel Segarra-Moragues, Jose; Ojeda, Fernando		POSTFIRE RESPONSE AND GENETIC DIVERSITY IN ERICA COCCINEA: CONNECTING POPULATION DYNAMICS AND DIVERSIFICATION IN A BIODIVERSITY HOTSPOT	EVOLUTION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES), Life Sciences (LS)	BIOLOGY, EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Fynbos, generation time, population divergence, population turnover, resprouter, seeder	CAPE FLORISTIC REGION, WOODY-PLANTS, EVOLUTIONARY RATES, FINITE POPULATION, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, FLOWERING PLANTS, STARCH STORAGE, F-STATISTICS, LIFE-HISTORY, SPECIATION	Understanding the processes of biological diversification is a central topic in evolutionary biology. The South African Cape fynbos, one of the major plant biodiversity hotspots out of the tropics, has prompted several hypotheses about the causes of generation and maintenance of biodiversity. Fire has been traditionally invoked as a key element to explain high levels of biodiversity in highly speciose fynbos taxa, such as the genus Erica. In this study, we have implemented a microevolutionary approach to elucidate how plant-response to fire may contribute to explain high levels of diversification in Erica. By using microsatellite markers, we investigated the genetic background of seeder (fire-sensitive) and resprouter (fire-resistant) populations of the fynbos species Erica coccinea. We found higher within-population genetic diversity and higher among-population differentiation in seeder populations and interpreted these higher levels of genetic diversification as a consequence of the comparatively shorter generation times and faster population turnover in the seeder form of this species. Considering that genetic divergence among populations may be seen as the initial step to speciation, the parallelism between these results and the pattern of biodiversity at the genus level offers stimulating insights into understanding causes of speciation of the genus Erica in the Cape fynbos.	[Segarra-Moragues, JG] Univ Zaragoza, Escuela Politecn Super Huesca, Dept Agr & Econ Agr, ARAID UZ, E-22071 Huesca, Spain; [Ojeda, F] Univ Cadiz, Dept Biol, E-11510 Puerto Real, Spain	Segarra-Moragues, JG (reprint author), CSIC UV GV, CIDE, Cami Marjal S-N, E-46470 Albal, Valencia, Spain.	j.gabriel.segarra@uv.es; fernando.ojeda@uca.es	Ojeda, Fernando/L-1626-2014; Segarra-Moragues, Jose Gabriel/I-7352-2012	Ojeda, Fernando/0000-0001-5480-0925; Segarra-Moragues, Jose Gabriel/0000-0003-0061-8647	0	31	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0014-3820		EVOLUTION	Evolution	2010	DEC	64	12				3511	3524	14	10.1111/j.1558-5646.2010.01064.x	688LF	CCC:000284850100013	20561051	Bronze			2019-04-10J	Robertson, BAHutto, RLFontaine, JJ	Robertson, Bruce A.; Hutto, Richard L.; Fontaine, Joseph J.		Evaluating food availability and nest predation risk as sources of bias in aural bird surveys	JOURNAL OF FIELD ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	bird survey, detection bias, food limitation, nest predation, point count	BLACK-CAPPED CHICKADEES, WARBLERS PHYLLOSCOPUS-TROCHILUS, SONG RATE, DENSITY, QUALITY, HABITAT, SELECTION, FOREST, RATES, FIRE	The use of aural surveys to estimate population parameters is widespread in avian studies. Despite efforts to increase the efficacy of this method, the potential for ecological context to bias population estimates remains largely unexplored. For example, food availability and nest predation risk can influence singing activity independent of density and, therefore, may bias aural estimates where these ecological factors vary systematically among habitats or other categories of ecological interest. We used a natural fire event in a mixed-conifer forest that experienced variation in fire severity (low, intermediate, and high) to determine if aural surveys produce accurate density estimates of Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) independent of ecological context. During the first 2-yr postfire, we censused junco populations in each burn type with intensive spot-mapping and nest searching, locating 168 nests. Simultaneously, we conducted fixed-radius point-count surveys and estimated food availability and nest predation risk in each burn type to test whether ecological context may influence aural detection probability independent of actual density. We found no difference in nesting densities among patches burned at different severity. Arthropod food availability was inversely related to fire severity during the first postfire breeding season, but increased to higher levels across all severities during the second. In both years, aural detections were significantly greater in intermediate severity patches that consistently represented the habitat with the lowest nest predation risk. These results suggest that nest predation risk may significantly bias aural estimates of avian populations. Although traditional aural survey methods such as the Breeding Bird Survey measure habitat attributes, our findings highlight the difficulty in assessing relevant covariates in estimates of avian population. Future research must consider the potential for nest predation and other ecological factors to drive interannual or interhabitat variation in avian population estimates independent of true changes in population size.	[Robertson, BA; Hutto, RL; Fontaine, JJ] Univ Montana, Avian Sci Ctr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA	Robertson, BA (reprint author), Natl Zoo, Smithsonian Migratory Bird Ctr, Washington, DC 20008 USA.	brucerobertson@hotmail.com	Fontaine, Joseph/F-6557-2010	Fontaine, Joseph/0000-0002-7639-9156	0	14	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0273-8570		J FIELD ORNITHOL	J. Field Ornithol.	2010	DEC	81	4				420	429	10	10.1111/j.1557-9263.2010.00298.x	687JI	CCC:000284774400010					2019-04-10J	Grant, TAMadden, EMShaffer, TLDockens, JS	Grant, Todd A.; Madden, Elizabeth M.; Shaffer, Terry L.; Dockens, Johnida S.		Effects of Prescribed Fire on Vegetation and Passerine Birds in Northern Mixed-Grass Prairie	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	fire effects, grassland bird, habitat, mixed-grass prairie, North Dakota, prescribed fire, vegetation	GREAT-PLAINS, SOUTHERN SASKATCHEWAN, TALLGRASS PRAIRIE, DAKOTA, HABITAT, CONSERVATION, HISTORY, COMMUNITIES, ABUNDANCE, USA	Prescribed fire is used widely to manage grasslands on National Wildlife Refuges and other public lands in the northern Great Plains, but its effects on habitat use or production of wildlife in the region are poorly understood. During 1998-2003, we used point counts to examine effects of prescribed fire on vegetation and passerines in a mixed-grass prairie complex in north-central North Dakota, USA (n 5 7 units, each 40-70 ha). Vegetation structure and, to a lesser extent, plant community composition varied with year of study (likely related to changes in annual precipitation) and with number of growing seasons since fire. Fire altered plant structure, especially the amount of residual vegetation, which in turn influenced bird species richness and abundance. The number of indicated pairs for sedge wren (Cistothorus platensis), clay-colored sparrow (Spizella pallida), Le Conte's sparrow (Ammodramus leconteii), Savannah sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), and bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) were lowest during the first postfire growing season but generally increased and stabilized within 2-3 postfire growing seasons. Our results support the premise that grassland passerines are well-adapted to frequent, periodic fires, generally corresponding to those occurring prior to Euro-American settlement of the region. Prescribed fire is important for reducing tree and shrub invasion, restoring biological integrity of plant communities, and maintaining or enhancing populations of grassland-dependent bird species. Managers in the northern mixed-grass prairie region should not be overly concerned about reductions in bird abundances that are limited mostly to the first growing season after fire.	[Grant, TA; Madden, EM; Dockens, JS] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Upham, ND 58789 USA; [Shaffer, TL] US Geol Survey, No Prairie Wildlife Res Ctr, Jamestown, ND 58401 USA	Grant, TA (reprint author), US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Souris River Basin Natl Wildlife Refuge Complex,6, Upham, ND 58789 USA.	todd_grant@fws.gov			1	54	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2010	NOV	74	8				1841	1851	11		678UN	CCC:000284107000025					2019-04-10J	Cockle, KLMartin, KDrever, MC	Cockle, Kristina L.; Martin, Kathy; Drever, Mark C.		Supply of tree-holes limits nest density of cavity-nesting birds in primary and logged subtropical Atlantic forest	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Cavity-nesting bird, Logging, Neotropical, Resource limitation, Resource supplementation, Tree-hole	TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST, COMMUNITY RESPONSES, SEED REMOVAL, CONSERVATION, ABUNDANCE, SELECTION, BIODIVERSITY, AVAILABILITY, MANAGEMENT, DISPERSAL	Tree cavities are proposed to limit populations and structure communities of cavity-nesting birds. Although the greatest diversity of cavity-nesting birds is found in tropical and subtropical moist forests, little is known about how tropical logging affects the abundance of cavities or cavity-nesting birds. We compared the abundance of cavities and cavity nests between primary and selectively-logged subtropical moist Atlantic forest in Argentina, and conducted the first before-after controlled nest-box addition experiment to determine whether nest sites limit the breeding density of cavity-nesting birds in tropical or subtropical moist forest. Visual inspection of 86 cavities identified through ground-surveys revealed that only 19% were suitable for nesting birds, suggesting that cavity abundance may be overestimated in the literature on tropical forests. Suitable cavities were found in fewer than 1% of 1156 trees <60 cm dbh but 20% of 20 trees >100 cm dbh. Logged forest had half the basal area of primary forest, one third the density of large trees, nine times fewer cavities suitable for nesting birds, and 17 times fewer active nests. When we added nest boxes, nesting density increased on treatment plots but not on control plots in both logged and primary forest, suggesting that cavity supply can limit nest density even in relatively undisturbed forest. This is the first experiment to show how reduced cavity supply in logged tropical forest can limit breeding density of cavity-nesting birds. International initiatives such as forest certification should promote tropical timber management strategies that conserve large live cavity-bearing trees. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Cockle, KL; Martin, K; Drever, MC] Univ British Columbia, Fac Forestry, Ctr Appl Conservat Res, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada; [Cockle, KL] Proyecto Selva Pino Parana, RA-3352 San Pedro, Misiones, Argentina; [Cockle, KL] Univ Maimonides, Dept Ciencias Nat & Antropol, Fdn Hist Nat Felix Azara, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Martin, K] Environm Canada, Delta, BC V4K 3N2, Canada	Cockle, KL (reprint author), Univ British Columbia, Fac Forestry, Ctr Appl Conservat Res, 2424 Main Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada.	kristinacockle@gmail.com; kathy.martin@ubc.ca; mdrever@interchange.ubc.ca		Cockle, Kristina/0000-0002-6502-923X	9	57	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2010	NOV	143	11				2851	2857	7		670HR	CCC:000283412300050					2019-04-10J	Brady, CJNoske, RA	Brady, Christopher J.; Noske, Richard A.		Succession in Bird and Plant Communities over a 24-Year Chronosequence of Mine Rehabilitation in the Australian Monsoon Tropics	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bauxite mining, fire, restoration, tropical savannas, vegetation structure	KAKADU-NATIONAL-PARK, NORTHERN AUSTRALIA, WESTERN-AUSTRALIA, BAUXITE MINES, FIRE REGIMES, VERTEBRATE FAUNA, JARRAH FOREST, VEGETATION, RECOLONIZATION, RESTORATION	We compared the bird and woody plant communities of 2 to 24-year-old rehabilitation areas at Gove bauxite mine (20 km2) in the seasonal tropics of northern Australia, where Alcan has maintained a consistent rehabilitation program since it began operation in 1974. Birds were censused every second month over 2 years in 30 widely separated 0.25-ha plots, representing five chronosequence stages. These were also compared with six ("off-mine") plots adjacent to the mine, which represented the annually burnt open forest typical of the region. Short-lived Acacias dominated the early chronosequence stages, whereas eucalypts dominated in later stages. Mean avian species richness and abundance increased significantly along the chronosequence, with values for the oldest rehabilitation plots being very similar to those for the off-mine plots. However, analyses of similarity revealed that the bird communities of the oldest rehabilitation plots were distinct from those of the off-mine plots, indicating that succession in rehabilitation areas is not following a direct trajectory toward the native open forest surrounding the mine. Several hollow-nesting bird species were scarce or absent in the rehabilitation areas, probably reflecting the absence of older hollow-bearing trees. Many differences between the rehabilitation and the off-mine areas in vegetation structure, woody flora, and avifauna appear to be related to the exclusion of fire from the minesite. We recommend the initiation of experiments designed to assess the effects of fire on the biota but caution against the use of fires for the majority of rehabilitation areas.	[Brady, CJ; Noske, RA] Charles Darwin Univ, Sch Environm & Life Sci, Darwin, NT 0909, Australia	Noske, RA (reprint author), CSIRO, Sci Educ Ctr, Berrimah, NT 0828, Australia.	richard.noske@cdu.edu.au			1	42	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2010	NOV	18	6				855	864	10		674EW	CCC:000283718000009					2019-04-10J	Negus, LPDavis, CAWessel, SE	Negus, Lucas P.; Davis, Craig A.; Wessel, Scott E.		Avian Response to Mid-contract Management of Conservation Reserve Program Fields	AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		BIRD ABUNDANCE, CRP FIELDS, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, POPULATION TRENDS, GRASSLAND BIRDS, NESTING SUCCESS, HABITAT, MISSOURI, SPARROW, PREDATORS	Throughout the Midwestern U.S., grassland birds have been declining faster than any other group of birds, with the main cause for these declines being the extensive loss of native prairies. During the last 25 y, surrogate grasslands, such as Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands, have become increasingly important as an alternative habitat for grassland birds. However, many CRP grasslands that once provided excellent habitat are now dominated by monculture stands of grass, resulting in a less diverse habitat that has reduced wildlife benefits. In summer 2002, the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission and Pheasants Forever partnered with the United States Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency and Natural Resource Conservation Service to initiate a program that promotes disking and interseeding legumes as a mid-contract management practice in CRP fields. The objectives of this study were to determine grassland bird abundance and nest-productivity in disked and interseeded CRP fields and evaluate vegetative responses to disking and interseeding. We conducted our study on 16 CRP fields in Stanton County, Nebraska where we used fixed transects to determine avian species richness and abundance and nest-searched twelve 4-ha plots to determine nest productivity in treatment (managed by disking and interseeding) and reference (unmanaged) CRP fields. We also recorded vegetation characteristics along each transect and at each nest. Overall abundance in treatment fields was 4.49 +/- 0.25 (SE) birds/transect compared to 2.93 +/- 0.21 birds/transect in reference fields. Species richness and diversity were also higher in treatment fields. There was no difference in nest density or nest success between treatment and reference fields. Treatment field vegetation had higher percentages of forbs and bare ground than reference sites. Maximum vegetation height and horizontal visual obstruction were also higher in treatment sites. To accommodate the most grassland bird species in CRP fields, management of CRP fields should include establishing an annual rotation of disking/interseeding, while leaving portions of fields in mature grass stands. Future research should focus On methods that will increase the longevity of the vegetation effects of disking/interseeding legumes.	[Negus, LP] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Zool, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Davis, CA] Oklahoma State Univ, Nat Resource Ecol & Management Dept, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Wessel, SE] Nebraska Game & Pk Commiss, Norfolk, VA USA	Negus, LP (reprint author), Grove Lake WMA, POB 44, Royal, NE 68773 USA.	lucas.negus@nebraska.gov			0	26	AMER MIDLAND NATURALIST	NOTRE DAME	UNIV NOTRE DAME, BOX 369, ROOM 295 GLSC, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 USA	http://www.allenpress.com	0003-0031		AM MIDL NAT	Am. Midl. Nat.	2010	OCT	164	2				296	310	15	10.1674/0003-0031-164.2.296	663WK	CCC:000282920700010					2019-04-10J	MacGregor-Fors, IBlanco-Garcia, ALindig-Cisneros, R	MacGregor-Fors, Ian; Blanco-Garcia, Arnulfo; Lindig-Cisneros, Roberto		Bird community shifts related to different forest restoration efforts: A case study from a managed habitat matrix in Mexico	ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Avian conservation, Biodiversity, Bird communities, Neotropics, Nurse plant, Lupinus elegans	SPATIAL TURNOVER, REFORESTATION, CONSERVATION, DIVERSITY	Although increased attention is being paid to animals when studying restoration processes, little is known on the effects that different restoration efforts have on birds In this study we evaluated the variation of bird communities in a managed landscape that includes cropfields and two different restoration strategies To evaluate possible differential effects of both restoration strategies (plus former-state and natural-state comparisons as controls), we compared their bird communities After five growing seasons, bird species richness was highest in native forest remnants and lowest in cropfields Although species richness values from the restoration treatment did not show differences in relation to those from the forest treatment, values for the reforestation treatment did. Bird densities were highest in the forests and alike in cropfield, reforestation, and restoration treatments However, bird communities recorded in the restoration treatment were fairly even when compared to the reforestation treatment, and highest bird species composition similarity was recorded between the restoration and forest treatments These results suggest that the studied restoration treatment attracts a higher number of bird species in relation to former states and thus enhance bird richness. Also, we demonstrate that restoration efforts that include more actions can affect more ecosystem components In this study, nurse plants not only offered a quick growing structural vegetation component that enhanced habitat structure, but also provided abundant food resources for birds. Given the scarcity of comparable habitat matrices to replicate our study, our results should be taken with caution as they are not generalizable to all Mexican temperate forest conditions Although further studies need to address whether restoration practices using Lupinus elegans positively affect bird primary population parameters (e g survival, reproduction), our results show that restoration practices that include nurse plants can promote rich bird communities after only 5 years from the implementation of restoration measures. (C) 2010 Elsevier B V All rights reserved.	[MacGregor-Fors, I] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Ctr Invest Ecosistemas, Lab Ecol Func, Morelia 58190, Michoacan, Mexico; [Blanco-Garcia, A; Lindig-Cisneros, R] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Ctr Invest Ecosistemas, Lab Ecol Restaurac, Morelia 58190, Michoacan, Mexico	MacGregor-Fors, I (reprint author), Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Ctr Invest Ecosistemas, Lab Ecol Func, Campus Morelia,Antigua Carretera Patzcuaro 8701, Morelia 58190, Michoacan, Mexico.		Lindig-Cisneros, Roberto/J-7306-2012; MacGregor-Fors, Ian/P-1455-2014	MacGregor-Fors, Ian/0000-0003-3198-7322	1	27	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0925-8574		ECOL ENG	Ecol. Eng.	2010	OCT	36	10				1492	1496	5		643ZG	CCC:000281339600034					2019-04-10J	Burton, JAHallgren, SWPalmer, MW	Burton, Jesse A.; Hallgren, Stephen W.; Palmer, Michael W.		Fire Frequency Affects Structure and Composition of Xeric Forests of Eastern Oklahoma	NATURAL AREAS JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	forest dynamics, mesophication, Oklahoma, prescribed fire, Quercus stellata	CROSS TIMBERS, UNITED-STATES, OAK SAVANNA, QUERCUS-MARILANDICA, WOODY VEGETATION, UPLAND FORESTS, NORTH-AMERICA, DYNAMICS, GROWTH, MISSOURI	Since European settlement changes in the fire regime of eastern deciduous forests of North America have led to changes in biological diversity and stand structure These changes may be attenuated in xeric forests at the western limit of the eastern deciduous forest where woody plant species richness is low and dominance high due to the rigorous biotic and physical environment Effects of fire frequency on woody plant species richness and stand structure were studied in a xeric oak dominated (Quercus spp) old growth forest in eastern Oklahoma where prescribed burning had been conducted over 20 years at frequencies ranging from zero to five fires per decade Regeneration (stem height < 1 4 m) cover was not affected by fire frequency Increasing fire frequency had a strong negative effect on species richness of saplings and shrubs (stem dbh < 5 cm) but no significant effect on small tree (stems 5 cm < dbh < 10 cm) and large tree (stems dbh > 10 cm) species richness While oak sapling density was not affected by fire frequency the density of non oak saplings and shrubs was very high at zero and one fire per decade and strongly reduced by fire frequencies of two or more per decade Although 20 years of treatment may not have been sufficient to show fire frequency effects on canopy trees the effect on species composition of saplings was strong and may have long term consequences for forest canopy composition These results suggest that without at least two fires per decade tree species richness of these forests will increase and oak dominance will diminish	[Burton, JA; Hallgren, SW] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Burton, JA] Oklahoma State Univ, Oklahoma Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Palmer, MW] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Bot, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA	Burton, JA (reprint author), Natl Pk Serv, Natchez Trace Pkwy Fire Mgmt,2680 Natchez Trace P, Tupelo, MS 38804 USA.		Hallgren, Stephen/A-2131-2013; Palmer, Michael/A-2519-2008		0	31	NATURAL AREAS ASSOC	ROCKFORD	320 SOUTH THIRD ST, ROCKFORD, IL 61104 USA	http://www.vmedia.com/naj	0885-8608		NAT AREA J	Nat. Areas J.	2010	OCT	30	4				370	379	10	10.3375/043.030.0401	677UF	CCC:000284016600001					2019-04-10J	Kroll, AJArnett, EBAltman, B	Kroll, Andrew J.; Arnett, Edward B.; Altman, Bob		Effects of salvage logging on avian nest survival in beetle-killed forests	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Beetle outbreaks, Forest breeding birds, Biodiversity management, Nest survival, Pinus contorta, Salvage logging, Snags	GREEN-TREE RETENTION, PACIFIC-NORTHWEST, SPECIES RICHNESS, BOREAL FOREST, DISTURBANCE, VEGETATION, PREDATION, BIRDS, SUCCESS, CONSERVATION	Information about the immediate and potentially prolonged impacts of salvage logging is needed to develop prescriptions that maintain forest productivity, reduce the risk of catastrophic fires, and conserve biological communities. Most salvage logging studies have investigated post-fire salvage, often clearcutting, and impacts documented in these studies may be more severe than selective logging prescriptions applied to forests affected by beetle outbreaks. We evaluated the effects of selective salvage logging on avian nest survival in beetle-killed lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) forests on the Fremont and Winema National Forests, south-central Oregon, USA, 1997-1999. Using logistic-exposure models, we found that nest survival for weak (period nest survival: 0.64; 95% CL: 0.50, 0.75) and strong (period nest survival: 0.71; 95% CL: 0.46, 0.87) cavity nesters was significantly higher than for ground nesters (period nest survival: 0.31; 95% CL: 0.18, 0.46), while nest survival for open cup nesting birds (period nest survival: 0.57: 95% CL: 0.47, 0.66) was intermediate. We did not find significant differences in nest survival for American robin (Turdus migratorius), chipping sparrow (Spizella passerine), dark-eyed junco (junco hyemalis), dusky flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri), mountain chickadee (Poecile gambeli), or yellow-rumped warbler (Dendroica coronata) (these six species comprised similar to 80% of the sample). Our results suggest that, unlike post-fire salvage logging, selective harvesting prescriptions after beetle outbreaks may be suitable for meeting multiple management objectives, including generating a flow of commodities and maintaining avian nest survival rates. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Kroll, AJ] Weyerhaeuser Co, Federal Way, WA 98063 USA; [Arnett, EB] Weyerhaeuser Co, Springfield, OR 97478 USA; [Altman, B] Amer Bird Conservancy, Corvallis, OR 97330 USA	Kroll, AJ (reprint author), Weyerhaeuser Co, WTC 1A5,POB 9777, Federal Way, WA 98063 USA.	aj.kroll@weyerhaeuser.com			1	36	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2010	SEP	260	9				1599	1606	8		670WO	CCC:000283458600019					2019-04-10J	Manu, SImong, ISCresswell, W	Manu, Shiiwua; Imong, Inaoyom Sunday; Cresswell, Will		Bird species richness and diversity at montane Important Bird Area (IBA) sites in south-eastern Nigeria	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		WEST-AFRICA	The mountains of south-eastern Nigeria are a western extension of the Cameroon mountain range, which is classified as an endemic bird area (EBA). Unlike its eastern extension in Cameroon, most of the ornithological surveys in the western extension of the Cameroon highlands in Nigeria have produced only limited checklists and inventories. There is a clear need for quantitative baseline data so that conservation problems can be identified. Twenty line transects covering a total transect length of 28.8 km were used to survey five sites (Afi Mountain Wildlife Sanctuary, Oban Division and Okwangwo Division of Cross River National Park, Sankwala Mountains and Mbe Mountains) in the westernmost extension of the Cameroon Mountains EBA in south-eastern Nigeria. Vegetation measurements were taken to control for the potential confounding effect of variation in vegetation density and structure on detectability of birds between sites. The 193 bird species recorded in Afi, 158 in Sankwala, 124 in Oban, 100 in Mbe and 73 in Okwangwo Division included most of the Cameroon highlands restricted range species. The results show that the mountains of south-eastern Nigeria are important parts of the Cameroon EBA, particularly Afi Mountain Wildlife Sanctuary. However these sites are threatened by fire and livestock grazing on the hilltops, shifting agriculture on the hillsides and lowlands, and logging for timber in some parts, as well as wildlife hunting for bushmeat.	[Manu, S; Imong, IS; Cresswell, W] AP Leventis Ornithol Res Inst, Jos, Nigeria; [Manu, S] Univ St Andrews, Sch Biol, St Andrews KY16 9TS, Fife, Scotland	Manu, S (reprint author), AP Leventis Ornithol Res Inst, Jos, Nigeria.	manushiiwua@yahoo.co.uk	Inuwa Muhammad, Sulaiman/G-5098-2016; Cresswell, Will/B-1472-2013; Cresswell, Will/	Inuwa Muhammad, Sulaiman/0000-0002-8711-0653; Cresswell, Will/0000-0002-4684-7624	0	27	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2010	SEP	20	3				231	239	9		668RF	CCC:000283286600002		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Villard, PFeldmann, PFerchal, APavis, C	Villard, Pascal; Feldmann, Philippe; Ferchal, Alain; Pavis, Claudie		Population size and habitat associations of the endemic Guadeloupe Woodpecker	JOURNAL OF FIELD ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Caribbean, deforestation, endemic, island, Melanerpes herminieri, population survey	INDICATORS, SELECTION	Guadeloupe Woodpeckers (Melanerpes herminieri) are the only endemic bird species on the Caribbean island of Guadeloupe. These woodpeckers were classified as Near Threatened on the IUCN Red List following a population survey in 1994. To reassess the Guadeloupe Woodpecker population, we conducted a new survey in 2007, with 21 transects distributed across eight habitats known to be used by the woodpeckers. Habitats with the highest estimated population densities were seasonal evergreen secondary growth forest, followed by swamp forest and rainforest. Surveys revealed an estimated population of 8469 pairs in 2007 compared to 7368 pairs in 1994, a difference that was not significant. However, our 2007 survey revealed that Guadeloupe Woodpeckers had recolonized the last large patch of available forest on Basse-Terre, one of the two main islands in the Guadeloupe archipelago. Although our results suggest that the Guadeloupe Woodpecker population has remained relatively stable since 1994, deforestation remains a serious threat and we recommend that the IUCN Red List status of Near Threatened be retained. Management measures that would benefit Guadeloupe Woodpeckers include halting deforestation and providing financial support to people on private land to plant trees and leave dead trees standing. Regular monitoring will be important for determining the possible effects of such measures on the Guadeloupe Woodpecker population.	[Villard, P; Feldmann, P; Pavis, C] AEVA, F-97170 Petit Bourg, Guadeloupe, Guadeloupe; [Ferchal, A] Parc Natl Guadeloupe, F-97120 St Claude, Guadeloupe, France	Villard, P (reprint author), AEVA, F-97170 Petit Bourg, Guadeloupe, Guadeloupe.	pascalvillard@yahoo.fr	Feldmann, Philippe/C-1246-2008		1	12	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0273-8570		J FIELD ORNITHOL	J. Field Ornithol.	2010	SEP	81	3				278	286	9		643HQ	CCC:000281286600006					2019-04-10J	Groce, JEMorrison, ML	Groce, Julie E.; Morrison, Michael L.		Habitat Use by Saw-Whet Owls in the Sierra Nevada	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Aegolius acadicus, detection probability, Lake Tahoe Basin, logistic regression, occupancy, PRESENCE, secondary cavity nester, snags, spatial scale	ESTIMATING SITE OCCUPANCY, WHITE FIR, FORESTS, RATES, CONIFER, RED	Northern saw-whet owls (Aegolius acadicus) are secondary cavity-nesters and their dependence on snags has potential repercussions on forest management practices. Descriptive studies exist regarding habitat characteristics around saw-whet nest and roost areas, yet few studies have examined associations within larger areas or relative to snag characteristics (e. g., density). We conducted owl broadcast surveys and snag sampling during the spring and summer of 2006 and 2007 in the Lake Tahoe Basin of the central Sierra Nevada; we measured additional habitat variables from Geographic Information System layers. We modeled detection and occupancy probabilities for saw-whets using sampling and site covariates at survey sites. In addition, we used stepwise logistic regression to compare habitat characteristics at owl use sites and nonuse sites at 2 spatial scales. Detection probability was low in 2006 and decreased throughout the survey period; detection probability was slightly higher in 2007 and unaffected by day of survey. Probability of occupancy was affected by elevation and dominant tree species in 2007. Similarly, stepwise logistic regression indicated saw-whet occurrence was negatively correlated with the percentage of area dominated by white fir (Abies concolor) at both the macrohabitat (approx. 260 ha) and microhabitat (approx. 20 ha) scales and was positively correlated with the percentage of area containing open canopy at the microhabitat scale. We did not find correlations between saw-whet occurrence and snag characteristics. Current restoration projects in areas of the Sierra Nevada aim to decrease relative abundance of white fir and the number of snags in forest stands. We recommend continued monitoring of saw-whets to understand potential effects of these restoration activities. Our estimates of saw-whet occupancy and detection probabilities can be used by forest managers to determine necessary survey effort for reliable results when developing monitoring protocols.	[Groce, JE; Morrison, ML] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Wildlife & Fisheries Sci, College Stn, TX 77843 USA	Groce, JE (reprint author), Texas A&M Inst Renewable Nat Resources, San Antonio, TX 78215 USA.	juliegroce@neo.tamu.edu			0	21	WILDLIFE SOC	BETHESDA	5410 GROSVENOR LANE, BETHESDA, MD 20814-2197 USA		0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2010	SEP	74	7				1523	1532	10		644GF	CCC:000281361200014					2019-04-10J	Klaus, NARush, SAKeyes, TSPetrick, JCooper, RJ	Klaus, Nathan A.; Rush, Scott A.; Keyes, Tim S.; Petrick, John; Cooper, Robert J.		SHORT-TERM EFFECTS OF FIRE ON BREEDING BIRDS IN SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN UPLAND FORESTS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		GOLDEN-WINGED WARBLER, EASTERN NORTH-AMERICA, HABITAT USE, WOOD THRUSHES, OAK FOREST, CONSERVATION, DISTURBANCE, COMMUNITIES, ECOLOGY, ECOSYSTEMS	We investigated how variation in fire severity (control or no fire; low, medium, and high severity fires) and interval (1-2 years vs. 3-6 years after fires) affected habitat and avian abundance, species diversity, richness, and evenness in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Fire severity and interval had significant implications for both habitat and avian communities. Species richness within 2 years of fires was on average 26% higher in areas receiving medium and high severity treatments than in unburned control units. Species diversity and species richness were markedly greater 3-6 years after fires within high severity treatments (12 and 44%, respectively), compared to unburned controls. Relative abundance and species evenness did not vary with fire severity or time since tire. The short-term effects of low severity fires, or high severity fires with short rotation periods (<= 2 years) may have limited positive effects on avian communities. Facilitation of disturbance regimes including mid to high severity fires, which foster uneven-aged forests, can be an effective conservation tool for restoring avian communities.	[Rush, SA; Cooper, RJ] Univ Georgia, DB Warnell Sch Forest Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Klaus, NA; Keyes, TS] Georgia Dept Nat Resources, Nongame Conservat Sect, Forsyth, GA 31029 USA; [Petrick, J] Chattahoochee Oconee Natl Forest, Gainesville, GA 30501 USA	Rush, SA (reprint author), Univ Georgia, DB Warnell Sch Forest Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA.	srush@uwindsor.ca			1	16	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2010	SEP	122	3				518	531	14	10.1676/09-105.1	653RT	CCC:000282115100012					2019-04-10J	Felton, ALindbladh, MBrunet, JFritz, O	Felton, Adam; Lindbladh, Matts; Brunet, Jorg; Fritz, Orjan		Replacing coniferous monocultures with mixed-species production stands: An assessment of the potential benefits for forest biodiversity in northern Europe	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Conservation, Plantation, Forest management, Biodiversity, Risk-spreading	SPRUCE PICEA-ABIES, EPIPHYTIC LICHEN DIVERSITY, SOUTHERN SWEDEN, CLIMATE-CHANGE, NORWAY SPRUCE, PLANTATION FORESTS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, SWEDISH FORESTS, ECOSYSTEM FUNCTION, GROUND VEGETATION	Conifer dominated plantations in central and northern Europe are associated with relatively low ecological values, and in some cases, may be vulnerable to disturbances caused by anthropogenic climate change. This has prompted the consideration of alternative tree species compositions for use in production forestry in this region. Here we evaluate the likely biodiversity costs and benefits of supplanting Norway spruce (Picea abies) monocultures with polycultures of spruce and birch (Betula spp.) in southern Sweden. This polyculture alternative has previously been evaluated in terms of economic, recreational, and silvicultural benefits. By also assessing the ecological implications we fill a gap in our understanding of the range of socio-ecological benefits that can be achieved from a single polyculture alternative. We project likely broad scale changes to species richness and abundance within production stands for five taxonomic groups including ground vegetation, tree-living bryophytes, lichens, saproxylic beetles, and birds. Our research leads us to three key findings. First, the replacement of spruce monocultures with spruce-birch polycultures in the managed forest landscapes of southern Sweden can be expected to result in an increase in biological diversity for most but not all taxa assessed, but it is unlikely to improve conditions for many red-listed forest species. Second, modification of other aspects of forest management (i.e. rotation length, dead wood and green tree retention, thinning regimes) is likely to contribute to further biodiversity gains using spruce-birch polycultures than spruce monocultures. Third, the paucity of empirical research which directly compares the biodiversity of different types of managed production stands, limits the extent to which policy relevant conclusions can be extracted from the scientific literature. We discuss the wider implications of our findings, which indicate that some climate change adaptation strategies, such as risk-spreading, can be readily integrated with the economic, environmental and social goals of multi-use forestry. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Felton, A; Lindbladh, M; Brunet, J] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, So Swedish Forest Res Ctr, SE-23053 Alnarp, Sweden; [Fritz, O] Nat Ctr, S-44430 Stenungsund, Sweden	Felton, A (reprint author), Swedish Univ Agr Sci, So Swedish Forest Res Ctr, Rorsjovagen 1,Box 49, SE-23053 Alnarp, Sweden.	adam.felton@ess.slu.se	Felton, Adam/C-1711-2013; Brunet, Jorg/B-3583-2012		5	141	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2010	AUG	260	6				939	947	9		647MY	CCC:000281623800001					2019-04-10J	Seymour, CLDean, WRJ	Seymour, Colleen L.; Dean, W. R. J.		The influence of changes in habitat structure on the species composition of bird assemblages in the southern Kalahari	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	arid savanna, bird life history trait, habitat alteration, habitat texture, scattered trees	WOODY PLANT INVASION, LAND-USE, ARID SAVANNA, ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, KEYSTONE STRUCTURES, AFRICAN SAVANNA, COMMUNITIES, BOTSWANA, RANGELANDS	Land use management practices often change habitat structure, which in turn influence diversity and the composition of floral and faunal assemblages. In the southern Kalahari, southern Africa, heavy grazing after above-average rainfall has lead to bush thickening, and widespread use of arboricides and/or removal of large trees for firewood has also impacted habitat structure. At sites near Kimberley, in South Africa, we investigated the effects of these changes on bird species richness and which aspects of habitat structure most influenced bird assemblage diversity and composition. We also investigated correlations between bird life history traits and habitat characteristics using RLQ analysis. Bird species richness and abundance were both explained by vertical habitat heterogeneity and density of woody species between the heights of 0-2 m, with bird species richness also explained by the density of woody species at heights above 6 m. Large trees within bush-thickened areas dampened the effects of bush thickening on bird assemblages by enabling certain species to persist, consistent with the idea that large trees are keystone structures. Smaller insectivorous gleaners, ball-and cup-nesters, birds with parts of their range extending into arid areas and birds with long-wavelength plumage (i.e. red, orange or yellow plumage) dominated bush-thickened habitats. Seed-eaters, burrow-and ground-nesters, bark-foragers, birds that perch and sally, or perch and swoop to the ground, were all negatively associated with bush thickening. Cavity-nesters, bark-foragers, hawkers, frugivores, birds that perch and sally and species with iridescent plumage were negatively affected by the loss of large trees. Of the common species analysed, nearly 40% of species had life history traits tied to large trees; and 68% had traits negatively associated with bush thickening and removal of large trees together, suggesting that where these changes in habitat occur simultaneously, bird diversity will be strongly affected.	[Seymour, CL; Dean, WRJ] Univ Cape Town, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa; [Seymour, CL] S African Natl Biodivers Inst, Kirstenbosch Res Ctr, Appl Biodivers Res Div, Claremont, South Africa	Seymour, CL (reprint author), Univ Cape Town, Percy Fitzpatrick Inst African Ornithol, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa.	c.seymour@sanbi.org.za		Seymour, Colleen/0000-0002-6729-2576	0	43	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1442-9985		AUSTRAL ECOL	Austral Ecol.	2010	AUG	35	5				581	592	12		628UR	CCC:000280148700010					2019-04-10J	Demers, SATakekawa, JYAckerman, JTWarnock, NAthearn, ND	Demers, Scott A.; Takekawa, John Y.; Ackerman, Joshua T.; Warnock, Nils; Athearn, Nicole D.		SPACE USE AND HABITAT SELECTION OF MIGRANT AND RESIDENT AMERICAN AVOCETS IN SAN FRANCISCO BAY	CONDOR			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	American Avocet, habitat selection, home range, Recurvirostra americana, San Francisco Bay, site fidelity, space use	WESTERN GREAT-BASIN, HOME-RANGE ANALYSIS, EXPERIMENTAL REFUGES, MIGRATORY WATERFOWL, LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE, NOCTURNAL BEHAVIOR, AVIAN COMMUNITIES, EVAPORATION PONDS, DANISH WETLANDS, SPATIAL SCALE	San Francisco Bay is a wintering area for shorebirds, including American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana). Recently, a new resident population of avocets has emerged, presumably because of the development of tidal marshes into salt-evaporation ponds. In habitat restoration now underway, as many as 90% of salt ponds will be restored to tidal marsh. However, it is unknown if wintering and resident avocets coexist and if their requirements for space and habitat differ, necessitating different management for their populations to be maintained during restoration. We captured and radio-marked wintering avocets at a salt pond and a tidal flat to determine their population status (migrant or resident) and examine their space use and habitat selection. Of the radio-marked avocets, 79% were migrants and 21% were residents. At the salt pond, residents' fidelity to their location of capture was higher, and residents moved less than did migrants from the same site. Conversely, on the tidal flat, fidelity of residents to their site of capture was lower, and residents' home ranges were larger than those of migrants from the same site. Habitat selection of migrants and residents differed little; however, capture site influenced habitat selection far more than the birds' status as migrants or residents. Our study suggests that individual avocets have high site fidelity while wintering in San Francisco Bay, although the avocet as a species is plastic in its space use and habitat selection. This plasticity may allow wintering migrant and resident avocets to adapt to habitat change in San Francisco Bay.	[Demers, SA; Takekawa, JY; Athearn, ND] US Geol Survey, Western Ecol Res Ctr, San Francisco Bay Estuary Field Stn, Vallejo, CA 94592 USA; [Ackerman, JT] Univ Calif Davis, US Geol Survey, Western Ecol Res Ctr, Davis Field Stn, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Warnock, N] PRBO Conservat Sci, Petaluma, CA 94954 USA	Demers, SA (reprint author), HT Harvey & Associates, 983 Univ Ave,Bldg D, Los Gatos, CA 95032 USA.	scottdemersl@gmail.com		Ackerman, Josh/0000-0002-3074-8322	0	18	COOPER ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	LAWRENCE	ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC NORTH AMER PO BOX 1897, LAWRENCE, KS 66044-8897 USA		0010-5422		CONDOR	Condor	2010	AUG	112	3				511	520	10		654XI	CCC:000282204000012					2019-04-10J	Mabry, CMBrudvig, LAAtwell, RC	Mabry, Catherine M.; Brudvig, Lars A.; Atwell, Ryan C.		The confluence of landscape context and site-level management in determining Midwestern savanna and woodland breeding bird communities	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Habitat mosaic, Landscape effects, Matrix, Landscape planning, Savanna restoration	OAK SAVANNAS, STAND STRUCTURE, NEST PREDATION, LOCAL HABITAT, RESTORATION, FOREST, CONSERVATION, DISTURBANCE, ABUNDANCE, FRAGMENTATION	Species distributions are determined by complex interplays between multi-scale factors. Conservation management, however, often occurs at a single scale of the site level. This is true for bird communities of restored savannas and mixed woodlands in the central U.S. In this region, many historic open-canopy oak savanna habitats have become closed canopy mixed woodlands due to loss of landscape-scale disturbance from fire and grazing. Site-level management efforts return some mixed woodland habitats back to savanna through fire and mechanical thinning. Savanna and woodland historically formed complex mosaic landscapes at the ecotone between prairies and Eastern deciduous forests and now exist within landscapes that vary in amount of open (e.g., perennial grassland and row crop agriculture) and woodland habitat. To understand the interplay between site and landscape level factors in savanna restoration, we sampled the breeding bird community in four combinations of site and landscape: restored savanna in open landscapes, restored savanna in woodland landscapes, and closed canopy woodland in both landscapes. We found that the outcome of site-level savanna restoration depended on the surrounding landscape. Compared to other treatment types, restored savannas in open landscapes supported a distinctive bird community characterized by high species richness, bird abundance, and percent of ground feeders, shrub nesters. and edge species. Both savanna and woodland sites in the open landscape had a higher percent of species of conservation concern, while at both site and landscape levels, woodland was associated with a higher percent of area sensitive species and habitat specialists. Our results suggest savanna restoration efforts should focus on sites that exist either in open country or on edges where closed canopy forest meets open country. This strategy would combine site and landscape level benefits of savanna restoration for avian diversity, while also preserving the conservation benefits of large tracts of intact forest. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Mabry, CM; Brudvig, LA; Atwell, RC] Iowa State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, Ames, IA 50011 USA	Mabry, CM (reprint author), Iowa State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Ecol & Management, 339 Sci 2 Hall, Ames, IA 50011 USA.	mabry@iastate.edu; brudvig@msu.edu; ryancardiffatwell@gmail.com			1	22	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2010	JUN	260	1				42	51	10		614YJ	CCC:000279095400005					2019-04-10J	Santos, MJGreenberg, JAUstin, SL	Santos, Maria J.; Greenberg, Jonathan A.; Ustin, Susan L.		Using hyperspectral remote sensing to detect and quantify southeastern pine senescence effects in red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) habitat	REMOTE SENSING OF ENVIRONMENT			English	Article	Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences (PCES)	EARTH SCIENCES	Physical Sciences - Other Topics	Habitat deterioration, Loblolly pine, Longleaf pine, Phenology, Picoides borealis, Pinus palustris, Pinus taeda, Pinus echinata, Shortleaf pine	HYPERSPATIAL IMAGE-ANALYSIS, CAVITY-TREE SELECTION, SEASONAL PATTERNS, NEEDLE BLIGHT, REFLECTANCE, INDEX, MANAGEMENT, DECLINE, CLASSIFICATION, CONSERVATION	Conservation of threatened and endangered species requires maintenance of critical habitat. The red-cockaded woodpecker Picoides borealis (RCN) is a threatened bird species, endemic to the mixed conifer forests of the southeastern United States. RCW nests and forages preferentially in mature longleaf pine Pin us palustris, but also uses mature loblolly pine Pinus taeda and shortleaf pine Pinus echinata forests. In the last century, the extent of mature pine forests has been greatly reduced by logging. The RCW, in contrast to other woodpeckers, excavates nest cavities in living trees and senescence symptoms (year round leaf chlorosis and leaf mortality) have been observed in mature pine stands across the southeast. Widespread mortality of the mature pine forests would threaten the long-term survival of the RCW. We used airborne hyperspectral data across a portion of Ft. Benning Military Installation, Georgia, U.S.A., to determine if senescent trees can be identified and mapped and assess the likely persistence of mature pines in the RCW habitat. Univariate analysis of variance showed good separation between asymptomatic, senesced and dead physiological conditions with asymptomatic trees having significantly higher reflectance for all bands in the wavelength range between 0.719 and 1.1676 mu m, senescent trees having significantly lower reflectance for bands in the range between 1.1927 and 1.3122 mu m, and dead trees having significantly higher reflectance for bands in the range between 1.8151 and 1.9471 mu m. Classification and Regression Tree (CART) models achieved correct classification rates and kappa statistics above 70%. CART models selected information from wavelength regions similar to those identified from the ANOVA, which likely explains their performance. Our aggregated CART model of tree senescence estimated that 141.4 ha (3%) of the study area is affected. RCW nests occurred in areas with significantly higher tree cover, and trees within foraging and home ranges did not have significantly more senescence than areas without RCW. These results indicate that although tree senescence is widespread, mortality is yet to significantly affect RCW habitat. Results and analysis of critical habitat similar to those exemplified in this study can extend our knowledge about the stressors of these important and imperiled components of biodiversity. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	[Santos, MJ; Greenberg, JA; Ustin, SL] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Land Air & Water Resources, Davis, CA 95616 USA	Santos, MJ (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, Dept Land Air & Water Resources, 1 Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA.	mjsantos@ucdavis.edu	Santos, Maria/H-6391-2015; Santos, Maria Joao/M-5034-2013; Greenberg, Jonathan/	Santos, Maria/0000-0002-6558-7477; Santos, Maria Joao/0000-0002-6558-7477; Greenberg, Jonathan/0000-0001-8435-9077	0	34	ELSEVIER SCIENCE INC	NEW YORK	360 PARK AVE SOUTH, NEW YORK, NY 10010-1710 USA	http://www.elsevier.com	0034-4257		REMOTE SENS ENVIRON	Remote Sens. Environ.	2010	JUN	114	6				1242	1250	9		585XX	CCC:000276865000009					2019-04-10J	Pons, PClavero, M	Pons, P.; Clavero, M.		Bird responses to fire severity and time since fire in managed mountain rangelands	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	prescribed burning, Pyrenees, conservation value, bird community, multivariate analysis, shrubland, Cytisus oromediterraneus	BURN SEVERITY, PRESCRIBED FIRE, LAND-USE, HABITAT, LANDSCAPE, PYRENEES, CONSERVATION, ASSEMBLAGES, ABANDONMENT, REGENERATION	Broom matorrals are subjected to extensive burning in the Pyrenees to improve grazing value, despite being a habitat of conservation interest in Europe. Our aim here is to evaluate the impact of such management practices over the long term, and of fire severity over the short term, on avifauna. Bird-habitat stations were distributed in broom shrublands from a few months to 51 years after fire, at 1400-2100 m a.s.l. Overall, shrub cover was the main habitat variable affecting the bird community composition. The abundance trends of bird species for half a century after fire were varied, but population recovery seemed slower (especially in the Dartford warbler Sylvia undata) than it had been reported at a lower altitude. Three species of European conservation concern (Alauda arvensis, Lullula arborea and Lanius collurio) showed abundance peaks at 10-19 years after fire. This time interval showed the highest species richness, abundance and conservation value, whereas shrub cover continued to increase afterwards. The bird assemblage tended to impoverish with increasing fire severity in the first year after a fire. Our results emphasize: (1) the slow recovery of bird community of burnt mountain shrublands; (2) the need for long-term biodiversity assessments to help improve planning of fire intervals at different altitudes; (3) the relevance of reducing fire severity due to its impact on fauna.	[Pons, P; Clavero, M] Univ Girona, Dept Ciencies Ambientals, E-17071 Girona, Catalonia, Spain; [Clavero, M] Area Biodiversitat, Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Solsona, Catalonia, Spain	Pons, P (reprint author), Univ Girona, Dept Ciencies Ambientals, Campus Montilivi, E-17071 Girona, Catalonia, Spain.	pere.pons@udg.edu	Clavero, Miguel/A-9040-2015; Pons, Pere/B-9472-2008; CSIC, EBD Donana/C-4157-2011	Clavero, Miguel/0000-0002-5186-0153; Pons, Pere/0000-0002-2196-5544; CSIC, EBD Donana/0000-0003-4318-6602	1	37	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2010	JUN	13	3				294	305	12		589CN	CCC:000277122500009					2019-04-10J	Zmihorski, M	Zmihorski, Michal		The effect of windthrow and its management on breeding bird communities in a managed forest	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Clearcuts, Dead wood, Disturbances, Salvage logging, Species diversity, Timber, Windstorm	BOREAL FOREST, NATURAL DISTURBANCES, BIALOWIEZA FOREST, EUROPEAN FORESTS, CREATED GAPS, LAND-USE, DIVERSITY, ASSEMBLAGES, BIODIVERSITY, LANDSCAPE	This study aimed to evaluate the impact of windthrow and two types of its management on the bird community of a managed, pine-dominated forest (NE Poland), where a windstorm event occurred in 2002. In 2007, the bird species composition was assessed using the point count method in three types of habitat: windthrow left undisturbed for natural regeneration, managed windthrow (all fallen trees removed), and intact forest (undisturbed by the windstorm, used as the control). In total, 2,365 individual birds of 70 species were recorded in the three analyzed habitats. The mean number of individuals per point and species per point was significantly higher in the natural windthrow than in the two other habitats. The diversity of the bird community was higher in the natural and managed windthrow, as compared to the control. The bird community of the control was significantly more similar to that of the natural windthrow than to the one in the managed windthrow. These results lead to a conclusion that the bird community was affected more by the clearing and artificial replanting following the windthrow than by the windthrow itself.	Polish Acad Sci, Museum & Inst Zool, PL-00679 Warsaw, Poland	Zmihorski, M (reprint author), Polish Acad Sci, Museum & Inst Zool, Wilcza 64, PL-00679 Warsaw, Poland.	zmihorski@miiz.waw.pl	Zmihorski, Michal/G-7366-2011; , Michal/; Zmihorski, Michal/	, Michal/0000-0002-2951-3462; Zmihorski, Michal/0000-0001-5137-1635	3	27	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2010	JUN	19	7				1871	1882	12		602AQ	CCC:000278110900004					2019-04-10J	Castro, JMoreno-Rueda, GHodar, JA	Castro, Jorge; Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio; Hodar, Jose A.		Experimental Test of Postfire Management in Pine Forests: Impact of Salvage Logging versus Partial Cutting and Nonintervention on Bird-Species Assemblages	CONSERVATION BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	clearcutting, postfire burned wood management, postfire forest restoration, salvage harvesting, salvage logging, Sierra Nevada National Park, snags	COMMUNITY SUCCESSION, NATURAL-DISTURBANCE, FIRE, DISPERSAL, SEVERITY, WILDFIRE, SPAIN, REGENERATION, LANDSCAPES, ECOSYSTEMS	There is an intense debate about the effects of postfire salvage logging versus nonintervention policies on regeneration of forest communities, but scant information from experimental studies is available. We manipulated a burned forest area on a Mediterranean mountain to experimentally analyze the effect of salvage logging on bird-species abundance, diversity, and assemblage composition. We used a randomized block design with three plots of approximately 25 ha each, established along an elevational gradient in a recently burned area in Sierra Nevada Natural and National Park (southeastern Spain). Three replicates of three treatments differing in postfire burned wood management were established per plot: salvage logging, nonintervention, and an intermediate degree of intervention (felling and lopping most of the trees but leaving all the biomass). Starting 1 year after the fire, we used point sampling to monitor bird abundance in each treatment for 2 consecutive years during the breeding and winter seasons (720 censuses total). Postfire burned-wood management altered species assemblages. Salvage logged areas had species typical of open-and early-successional habitats. Bird species that inhabit forests were still present in the unsalvaged treatments even though trees were burned, but were almost absent in salvage-logged areas. Indeed, the main dispersers of mid-and late-successional shrubs and trees, such as thrushes (Turdus spp.) and the European Jay (Garrulus glandarius) were almost restricted to unsalvaged treatments. Salvage logging might thus hamper the natural regeneration of the forest through its impact on assemblages of bird species. Moreover, salvage logging reduced species abundance by 50% and richness by 40%, approximately. The highest diversity at the landscape level (gamma diversity) resulted from a combination of all treatments. Salvage logging may be positive for bird conservation if combined in a mosaic with other, less-aggressive postfire management, but stand-wide management with harvest operations has undesirable conservation effects.	[Castro, J; Hodar, JA] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain; [Moreno-Rueda, G] Osterreisch Acad Wissensch, Konrad Lorenz Inst Vergleichende Verhaltenforsch, A-1160 Vienna, Austria; [Moreno-Rueda, G] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain	Castro, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain.	jorge@ugr.es	Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio/K-7068-2014; Hodar, Jose/G-3447-2018; Castro, Jorge/M-1509-2014	Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio/0000-0002-6726-7215; Hodar, Jose/0000-0003-3475-4997; Castro, Jorge/0000-0002-6362-2240	0	45	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0888-8892		CONSERV BIOL	Conserv. Biol.	2010	JUN	24	3				810	819	10		596NC	CCC:000277690900024	20015262				2019-04-10J	Smith, RKPullin, ASStewart, GBSutherland, WJ	Smith, Rebecca K.; Pullin, Andrew S.; Stewart, Gavin B.; Sutherland, William J.		Effectiveness of Predator Removal for Enhancing Bird Populations	CONSERVATION BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	bird conservation, culling, evidence-based conservation, hatching success, meta-analysis, predator eradication, systematic review methodology	ENVIRONMENTAL-MANAGEMENT, MESOPREDATOR RELEASE, MAMMALIAN PREDATORS, NEST PREDATION, METAANALYSIS, CONSERVATION, CONFLICTS, ISLANDS, ECOLOGY, SUCCESS	Predation pressure on vulnerable bird species has made predator control an important issue for international nature conservation. Predator removal by culling or translocation is controversial, expensive, and time-consuming, and results are often temporary. Thus, it is important to assess its effectiveness from all available evidence. We used explicit systematic review methodology to determine the impact of predator removal on four measurable responses in birds: breeding performance (hatching success and fledging success) and population size (breeding and postbreeding). We used meta-analysis to summarize results from 83 predator removal studies from six continents. We also investigated whether characteristics of the prey, predator species, location, and study methodology explained heterogeneity in effect sizes. Removing predators increased hatching success, fledging success, and breeding populations. Removing all predator species achieved a significantly larger increase in breeding population than removing only a subset. Postbreeding population size was not improved on islands, or overall, but did increase on mainlands. Heterogeneity in effect sizes for the four population parameters was not explained by whether predators were native or introduced; prey were declining, migratory, or game species; or by the study methodology. Effect sizes for fledging success were smaller for ground-nesting birds than those that nest elsewhere, but the difference was not significant. We conclude that current evidence indicates that predator removal is an effective strategy for the conservation of vulnerable bird populations. Nevertheless, the ethical and practical problems associated with predator removal may lead managers to favor alternative, nonlethal solutions. Research is needed to provide and synthesize data to determine whether these are effective management practices for future policies on bird conservation.	[Smith, RK; Sutherland, WJ] Univ Cambridge, Dept Zool, Conservat Sci Grp, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, England; [Pullin, AS; Stewart, GB] Bangor Univ, Sch Environm & Nat Resources, Ctr Evidence Based Conservat, Bangor LL57 2UW, Gwynedd, Wales	Smith, RK (reprint author), Univ Cambridge, Dept Zool, Conservat Sci Grp, Downing St, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, England.	r.k.smith@durham.ac.uk	Sutherland, William/B-1291-2013; Pullin, Andrew/; Sutherland, William/	Pullin, Andrew/0000-0001-5299-8042; Sutherland, William/0000-0002-6498-0437	3	109	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0888-8892		CONSERV BIOL	Conserv. Biol.	2010	JUN	24	3				820	829	10		596NC	CCC:000277690900025	20067492				2019-04-10J	Fattorini, S	Fattorini, Simone		Effects of fire on tenebrionid communities of a Pinus pinea plantation: a case study in a Mediterranean site	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Abundance distribution, Community ecology, Evenness, Diversity, Italy, Species richness	SPECIES-AREA RELATIONSHIP, GEOMETRIC SERIES, FOREST, DIVERSITY, BURNT, LANDSCAPES, PATTERNS, HABITAT, BIRDS, FIT	Fire is a frequent event in Mediterranean ecosystems, yet the effects on animal diversity are poorly understood. In this paper, the short-term effects of a severe fire on the tenebrionid beetles in a planted pinewood in Central Italy are investigated in comparison with those recorded in other animal communities, namely collembolans, isopods and birds. The use of statistical tests to compare values of dominance, diversity and equitability (measured with various indexes), between burned and unburned habitats, as well as the use of two major niche-based species abundance models (the geometric series and the MacArthur broken stick model), revealed a strong decrease in diversity and evenness in all investigated animal groups, including birds, for which previous research suggested minor effects. In particular, tenebrionids are proved to be particularly indicative of habitat transformations determined by fire, showing important changes in community structure, from that characteristic of woodlands to that of open habitats. Because most of the original vegetation of Mediterranean woodlands has been removed by the continued influence of man, mature pinewoods, even if artificial, represent an important surrogate habitat for most species of tenebrionids (and likely other animals of conservation concern, such as bird species), and their preservation from catastrophic fires is of paramount importance.	Univ Milano Bicocca, Dept Biotechnol & Biosci, Water Ecol Team, I-20126 Milan, Italy	Fattorini, S (reprint author), Univ Milano Bicocca, Dept Biotechnol & Biosci, Water Ecol Team, Piazza Sci 2, I-20126 Milan, Italy.	simone_fattorini@virgilio.it	Fattorini, Simone/E-7075-2012	Fattorini, Simone/0000-0002-4517-2135	0	14	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2010	MAY	19	5				1237	1250	14		580XX	CCC:000276485300003					2019-04-10J	Gonzalez-Oreja, JAGarbisu, CMendarte, SIbarra, AAlbizu, I	Antonio Gonzalez-Oreja, Jose; Garbisu, Carlos; Mendarte, Sorkunde; Ibarra, Ainhoa; Albizu, Isabel		Assessing the performance of nonparametric estimators of species richness in meadows	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Accuracy, Bias, Grass mowing, Managed meadows, Plant diversity, Precision	ACCUMULATION FUNCTIONS, ASSESSING BIODIVERSITY, BIRD COMMUNITIES, MODEL SELECTION, CURVES, INVENTORIES, DIVERSITY	To accurately measure the number of species in a biological community, a complete inventory should be performed, which is generally unfeasible; hopefully, estimators of species richness can help. Our main objectives were (i) to assess the performance of nonparametric estimators of plant species richness with real data from a small set of meadows located in the Basque campia (northern Spain), and (ii) to apply the best estimator to a larger dataset to test the effects on plant species richness caused by environmental conditions and human practices. Two non-asymptotic and seven asymptotic accumulation functions were fitted to a randomized sample-based rarefaction curve computed with data from three well sampled meadows, and information theoretic methods were used to select the best fitting model; this was the Morgan-Mercer-Flodin, and its asymptote was taken as our best guess of true richness. Then, five nonparametric estimators were computed: ICE, Chao 2, Jackknife 1 and 2, and Bootstrap; MMRuns and MMMeans were also assessed. According to the criteria set for our performance assessment (i.e., bias, precision, and accuracy), the best estimator was Jackknife 1. Finally, Jackknife 1 was applied to assess the effects of terrain slope and soil parent material, and also fertilization, grazing, and mowing, on plant species richness from a larger dataset (20 meadows). Results suggested that grass cutting was causing a loss of richness close to 30%, as compared to unmowed meadows. It is concluded that the use of nonparametric estimators of species richness can improve the evaluation of biodiversity responses to human management practices.	[Gonzalez-Oreja, JA; Garbisu, C; Mendarte, S; Ibarra, A; Albizu, I] Basque Inst Agr Res & Dev, Dept Ecosyst, NEIKER Tecnalia, Derio 48160, Spain	Gonzalez-Oreja, JA (reprint author), Basque Inst Agr Res & Dev, Dept Ecosyst, NEIKER Tecnalia, C Berreaga 1, Derio 48160, Spain.	jgonzalez@neiker.net	Gonzalez-Oreja, Jose A./B-1235-2011; Garbisu, Carlos/D-1942-2012; Garbisu, Carlos/G-1908-2014; Besga, Gerardo/	Gonzalez-Oreja, Jose A./0000-0001-6831-926X; Garbisu, Carlos/0000-0002-5577-6151; Besga, Gerardo/0000-0002-5557-8788	0	20	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	0960-3115		BIODIVERS CONSERV	Biodivers. Conserv.	2010	MAY	19	5				1417	1436	20		580XX	CCC:000276485300016					2019-04-10J	Brand, LAStromberg, JCNoon, BR	Brand, L. Arriana; Stromberg, Juliet C.; Noon, Barry R.		Avian Density and Nest Survival on the San Pedro River: Importance of Vegetation Type and Hydrologic Regime	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Abert's towhee, abundance, Arizona, Bell's vireo, cottonwood, mesquite, riparian, saltcedar, surface water, yellow-breasted chat	SALTCEDAR TAMARIX-CHINENSIS, SOUTHWESTERN UNITED-STATES, MIDDLE RIO-GRANDE, BREEDING BIRDS, COLORADO RIVER, RIPARIAN VEGETATION, BROOD PARASITISM, SPECIES RICHNESS, ABERTS TOWHEE, NEW-MEXICO	Lowland riparian vegetation in the southwestern United States is critically important for maintaining a high richness and density of breeding birds. Further investigation is needed within riparian corridors, however, to evaluate the relative importance of vegetation type and hydrologic regime for avian density and nest survival as targets for regional conservation or restoration efforts. We estimated the densities of 40 bird species and for species grouped on the basis of nest height and dependence on surface water in gallery cottonwood-willow (Populus spp.-Salix spp.) forests, saltcedar (Tamarix spp.) shrub lands, and terrace vegetation types along a gradient in the hydrologic regime of the San Pedro River, Arizona, USA. We also assessed nest survival for shrub-nesting insectivores and herbivores. Canopy-nesting birds as a group and 14 individual bird species reached their greatest densities in cottonwood forests regardless of the hydrologic regime. Water-dependent birds as a group reached their highest density in both intermittent-and perennial-flow cottonwood stands, but certain species occurred almost exclusively in perennial-flow sites. Two shrub-nesting species and the brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) were most abundant in saltcedar shrub lands, and the brown-headed cowbird was most abundant in saltcedar stands with intermittent flows. Mesquite (Prosopis spp.) and big sacaton (Sporobolus wrightii) grassland each maintained the highest densities of certain species within >= 1 hydrologic regime. Shrub-nesting insectivores had the greatest nest survival in cottonwood, including Arizona Bell's vireo (Vireo bellii arizonae), and also had lower proportions of nests parasitized and preyed upon, although 95% confidence intervals among vegetation types overlapped. Nest survival for both shrub-nesting insectivores and herbivores was lowest in intermittent-flow saltcedar, although, again, confidence intervals overlapped. Nest survival was lower in parasitized than nonparasitized nests in mesquite and across vegetation types for Arizona Bell's vireo and in cottonwood for Abert's towhee (Pipilo aberti). Riparian management that maintains heterogeneous riparian vegetation types, including floodplain vegetation comprising cottonwood-willow gallery riparian forests with some stretches of perennial flow, are important for maintaining the high diversity and abundance of breeding birds on the San Pedro River and probably across the region. Cottonwood stands also appear to maintain highest nest survival for some shrub-nesting birds.	[Brand, LA] Univ Arizona, Dept Hydrol & Water Resources, Sustainabil Semiarid Hydrol & Riparian Areas Ctr, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Stromberg, JC] Arizona State Univ, Sch Life Sci, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Noon, BR] Colorado State Univ, Dept Fish Wildlife & Conservat Biol, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA	Brand, LA (reprint author), US Geol Survey, Western Ecol Res Ctr, San Francisco Bay Estuary Field Stn, 505 Azuar Dr, Vallejo, CA 94592 USA.	arriana_brand@usgs.gov			1	32	WILEY-BLACKWELL	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2010	MAY	74	4				739	754	16		591MT	CCC:000277305800014					2019-04-10J	Temple, DLChamberlain, MJConner, LM	Temple, Danielle L.; Chamberlain, Michael J.; Conner, L. Mike		Spatial Ecology, Survival and Cause-Specific Mortality of Gray Foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) in a Longleaf Pine Ecosystem	AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology		HABITAT USE, PRESCRIBED FIRE, RED, COMPETITION, WISCONSIN, TELEMETRY, PREDATION, BEHAVIOR, GEORGIA, FORESTS	Gray fox ecology is poorly understood within the longleaf pine ecosystem, despite the importance of these landscapes to conservation and biological diversity. During 2002-2006, we radio-monitored 42 gray foxes and estimated space use, habitat selection and survival within a managed longleaf pine forest. Sizes of home ranges and core areas were greater in winter than during other seasons, but were similar between males and females. Industrial agriculture field and residential areas were important. to foxes when selecting home ranges, but hardwood forest stands were selected when establishing core areas and were consistently used more than other habitats. Despite being captured within the longleaf pine community, most foxes either consistently were found outside of this system in other habitats, or used habitats along the periphery of the longleaf pine system. Mean annual survival was 0.61, and human-induced factors (vehicle collisions and trapping) accounted for most (63%) fox mortalities. Longleaf pine forests did not appear to be important to gray foxes in this study, which is significant because natural ecosystems are often important for predator species. We provide evidence that sources of gray fox mortality are influenced by habitat selection patterns.	[Temple, DL; Chamberlain, MJ] Louisiana State Univ, Sch Renewable Nat Resources, Ctr Agr, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Conner, LM] Joseph W Jones Ecol Res Ctr, Newton, GA 39870 USA	Temple, DL (reprint author), Louisiana State Univ, Sch Renewable Nat Resources, Ctr Agr, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA.				3	51	AMER MIDLAND NATURALIST	NOTRE DAME	UNIV NOTRE DAME, BOX 369, ROOM 295 GLSC, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 USA	http://www.allenpress.com	0003-0031		AM MIDL NAT	Am. Midl. Nat.	2010	APR	163	2				413	422	10	10.1674/0003-0031-163.2.413	575ET	CCC:000276050400014		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Maguire, TJHadley, KS	Maguire, Timothy J.; Hadley, Keith S.		A Multi-Scale Assessment of Avian Diversity Following Stream Rewatering, Owens River Gorge, California	NATURAL AREAS JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	avian community, avian diversity, California, restoration, riparian, scale	AMAZONIAN BIRD COMMUNITIES, RIPARIAN BUFFER WIDTH, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, VEGETATION STRUCTURE, UNITED-STATES, HABITAT, RESTORATION, ECOSYSTEMS, FORESTS, ASSEMBLAGES	We employed a multi-scale approach to examine the evolving spatial patterns of avian diversity following rewatering (1991-1999) of the Owens River Gorge in eastern California. We based our analysis on three independent data sets representing 18 canyon locations (4 reference and 14 rewatered) consisting of bird counts, measures of landscape variation (canyon dimensions), and vegetation structure and composition (foliage height diversity, total vegetation volume, and plant species diversity). We analyzed our data by grouping sites according to bird diversity and environmental factors using Sorenson's similarity index and cluster analysis and by employing correlation (Spearman rank) and regression (multiple and backward stepwise) procedures to determine the relative importance of environmental factors on avian diversity at different spatial scales. Our results revealed: (1) that valley bottom width determines the extent of riparian vegetation (rs = .73, P < 0.01) and, indirectly, bird species diversity (rs = .52, P < 0.05) at the landscape scale; and (2) that avian diversity at the habitat scale is most strongly correlated with plant species diversity (rs = .57, P < 0.05). These results indicate avian diversity is responding to habitat restoration resulting from the rewatering of the Owens River Gorge but is spatially constrained by canyon dimensions that limit the area of riparian habitat and, indirectly, plant species diversity. We suggest future evaluations of stream restoration and its role on animal communities consider the merits of a multi-scale analysis.	[Maguire, TJ; Hadley, KS] Portland State Univ, Dept Geog, Portland, OR 97207 USA	Maguire, TJ (reprint author), Ecosyst Sci, 202 N 9th St,Suite 400, Boise, ID 83702 USA.	tmaguire@ecosystemsciences.com; hadley@pdx.edu			2	20	NATURAL AREAS ASSOC	ROCKFORD	320 SOUTH THIRD ST, ROCKFORD, IL 61104 USA	http://www.vmedia.com/naj	0885-8608		NAT AREA J	Nat. Areas J.	2010	APR	30	2				124	137	14	10.3375/043.030.0201	592CG	CCC:000277352000002					2019-04-10J	Crow, Cvan Riper, C	Crow, Claire; van Riper, Charles, III		Avian Community Responses to Mechanical Thinning of a Pinyon-Juniper Woodland: Specialist Sensitivity to Tree Reduction	NATURAL AREAS JOURNAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	avian community changes, bird surveys, Bureau of Land Management, Colorado Plateau, Intermountain West, mechanical fuels reduction, pinyon-juniper woodlands, Utah	HABITAT PREFERENCES, STATISTICAL POWER, VEGETATION, SELECTION, PATTERNS, STEPPE, RANGE, TESTS, FIRE	Natural area managers in regions of the semi-arid west, particularly on the Colorado Plateau. are presently dealing with expanding pinyon (Pious spp. Engelm.) - juniper (Juniperus spp. Engelm.) woodlands on rangelands. Increased equipment costs associated with 'chaining'. and dangers associated with prescribed fires, have resulted in more instances where mechanical thinning of woodlands is being used. Our 2005 to 2006 study within Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument. Utah. examined responses of breeding birds to the mechanical reduction of pinyon-juniper woodlands within a randomized 4-block design that incorporated 11 control and nine treatment bird count stations. We surveyed birds within 3.1-ha bird-count stations (n = 20) prior to, and following. pinyon-juniper mechanical reduction treatments. Thinning in April 2006 removed a mean of 92% (+ 6.4% SE) of live trees from treatment blocks. The avian guild most greatly influenced by mechanical thinning included pinyon-juniper obligate species. Species eliminated following mechanical thinning were Gray Vireo (Vireo vicinior) and Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater). while Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerine) numbers were significantly reduced. Birds in the shrub-nesting guild, including the sagebrush specialist Brewer's Sparrow (Spizella breweri), and habitat generalists such as the Bushtit (Psaltriparius minimus). increased in relative abundance following treatment. We conclude that mechanical thinning within the Intermountain West has the potential for natural area managers to design treatments that can influence numbers of both pinyon-juniper and sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt.) steppe avian species.	[van Riper, C] Univ Arizona, US Geol Survey, SW Biol Sci Ctr, Sonoran Desert Res Stn, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Crow, C] Resources Management Div, Springdale, UT 84767 USA; [Crow, C] Univ Arizona, Sch Nat Resources, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA	van Riper, C (reprint author), Univ Arizona, US Geol Survey, SW Biol Sci Ctr, Sonoran Desert Res Stn, 325 Biol Sci E, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA.	charles_van_riper@usgs.gov			2	35	NATURAL AREAS ASSOC	ROCKFORD	320 SOUTH THIRD ST, ROCKFORD, IL 61104 USA	http://www.vmedia.com/naj	0885-8608		NAT AREA J	Nat. Areas J.	2010	APR	30	2				191	201	11	10.3375/043.030.0206	592CG	CCC:000277352000007					2019-04-10J	Block, GMorrison, ML	Block, Giselle; Morrison, Michael L.		LARGE-SCALE EFFECTS ON BIRD ASSEMBLAGES IN DESERT GRASSLANDS	WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	desert grasslands, bird assemblages, habitat restoration, Arizona, New Mexico	SOUTHEASTERN ARIZONA	During winter 1996-1997 and summer 1997, we surveyed birds at 26 study sites in desert grasslands of Arizona and New Mexico to determine tolerance of birds to variability in plant composition and structure. The relationship between bird abundance and vegetative characteristics might be an important consideration in the development of management and restoration plans. Of the 49 bird species we observed, we examined and 16 species in detail for winter and summer seasons, respectively. A noticeable shift in species composition occurred between 3% and 10% woody plant cover. During winter Chestnut-collared Longspurs (Calcarins ornatus) and Horned Link's (Ercmophila alpestris) showed significant positive relationships with grass cover and negative relationships with woody plant cover, occurring in greatest numbers where woody cover was <1%. The richness of sparrow species during winter was highest among sites with 6% to 15% woody plant cover. In addition to showing significant positive relationships with woody cover, Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineas), Black-throated Sparrows (Amphispiza bilineata), Brewer's Sparrows (Spirella breweri), and Chipping Sparrows (S. passerina) showed significant positive relationships with shrub species richness. Our results showed that reductions of woody plant cover below 3% in combination with the presence of native grasses could substantially enhance the presence of several bird species. Maintenance of woody cover between 6% rind 15% could increase use by a suite of other species, especially wintering sparrows.	[Morrison, ML] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Wildlife & Fisheries Sci, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Block, G] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Petaluma, CA 94954 USA	Morrison, ML (reprint author), Texas A&M Univ, Dept Wildlife & Fisheries Sci, College Stn, TX 77843 USA.	mlmorrison@ag.tamu.edu			0	11	BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIV	PROVO	290 LIFE SCIENCE MUSEUM, PROVO, UT 84602 USA	http://www.lib.byu.edu/~nms/	1527-0904		WEST N AM NATURALIST	West. North Am. Naturalist	2010	APR	70	1				19	25	7	10.3398/064.070.0103	595IS	CCC:000277604500003					2019-04-10J	Smythe, LAHaukos, DA	Smythe, Lindsay A.; Haukos, David A.		Response of Grassland Birds in Sand Shinnery Oak Communities Restored Using Tebuthiuron and Grazing in Eastern New Mexico	RESTORATION ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	density, DISTANCE, grassland birds, grazing, herbicide, shinnery oak	MANAGEMENT, DENSITY, HABITAT	Sand shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) communities are a unique component of grassland bird habitat in eastern New Mexico and have been impacted by human activities for decades. These communities are frequently managed with livestock grazing and herbicide application for shrub control, strategies that potentially can be used to restore the historical shrub-grass composition of this plant community. During spring migration and the breeding seasons of 2004 and 2005, we compared density and community structure of grassland bird species among four combinations of tebuthiuron application and grazing treatments that were being evaluated for restoration of shinnery oak communities. We performed biweekly point transects on sixteen 65-ha study plots in these communities. Density of all avian species combined did not differ between grazed and ungrazed plots. Tebuthiuron-treated plots had a 40% higher average density for combined species than untreated plots. There was a 41% higher average density of all species during spring 2005 than 2004, but density was similar during the breeding season of both years. These trends were predominantly influenced by densities of migratory Cassin's Sparrow (Aimophila cassinii), which were greater in tebuthiuron-treated plots in both years. Densities of resident Meadowlarks (Sturnella spp.) exhibited little response to tebuthiuron or grazing treatments. Avian species richness, evenness, and diversity were only minimally affected by the tebuthiuron and grazing treatments. This study occurred over a period of highly variable precipitation, so future assessments, spanning longer wet-dry cycles and maturing plant communities, may be necessary to completely determine avian response to these restoration efforts.	[Smythe, LA; Haukos, DA] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Nat Resources Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA	Smythe, LA (reprint author), Kofa Natl Wildlife Refuge, 9300 E 28th St, Yuma, AZ 85365 USA.	lindsay_smythe@fws.gov			0	10	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1061-2971		RESTOR ECOL	Restor. Ecol.	2010	MAR	18	2				215	223	9	10.1111/j.1526-100X.2008.00443.x	571NC	CCC:000275757500012					2019-04-10J	Miller, KE	Miller, Karl E.		NEST-SITE LIMITATION OF SECONDARY CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS IN EVEN-AGE SOUTHERN PINE FORESTS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		TREE CAVITIES, POPULATIONS, AVAILABILITY, COMMUNITIES, ORIENTATION, ECOSYSTEM, SUCCESS, FLORIDA, BOXES	I used a randomized, replicated, controlled study design to test the hypothesis that nest-site availability limits breeding densities of secondary cavity nesting species in even-age southern pine (Pinus spp.) forests. Breeding densities of secondary cavity nesters increased significantly on treated plots after nest boxes were introduced. Total number of nesting attempts also increased several fold post-treatment. These data indicate nest-site availability was a limiting factor for breeding densities of secondary cavity nesting species. The response of individual species to nest boxes ranged from moderately high (Great Crested Flycatcher [Myiarchus crinitus]), to low (Tufted Titmouse [Baeolophus bicolor], Eastern Bluebird [Sialia sialis]) to no response (Carolina Wren [Thryothorus ludovicianus]). At least three factors accounted for interspecific differences in this study: different levels of reliance on cavities excavated in snags, different body sizes, and differences in local population densities. The large number of unoccupied nest boxes (only 9% were used for nesting) suggests secondary cavity nesters were not limited solely by cavity availability but also by habitat quality. Prescribed burning appeared to facilitate discovery and use of nest boxes by birds in this study, consistent with the hypothesis that nest-site limitation is mitigated by habitat structure. Received 4 September 2007. Accepted 3 September 2009.	[Miller, KE] Univ Florida, Dept Wildlife Ecol & Conservat, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA	Miller, KE (reprint author), Florida Fish & Wildlife Conservat Commiss, Fish & Wildlife Res Inst, 1105 SW Williston Rd, Gainesville, FL 32601 USA.	karl.miller@myfwc.com			2	17	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2010	MAR	122	1				126	134	9	10.1676/07-130.1	627LP	CCC:000280041300016					2019-04-10J	Baldwin, HQJeske, CWPowell, MAChadwick, PCBarrow, WC	Baldwin, Heather Q.; Jeske, Clinton W.; Powell, Melissa A.; Chadwick, Paul C.; Barrow, Wylie C., Jr.		HOME-RANGE SIZE AND SITE TENACITY OF OVERWINTERING LE CONTE'S SPARROWS IN A FIRE MANAGED PRAIRIE	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		GRASSLAND BIRD COMMUNITIES, RADIO TRANSMITTERS, HENSLOWS SPARROWS, HABITAT, WINTER, PATTERNS, SPACE	We evaluated home-range size and site tenacity of Le Conte's Sparrows (Ammodramus lecontii) during winter 2002-2003 at Brazoria National Wildlife Refuge, Texas. Twenty-six wintering Le Conte's Sparrows were radiomarked in 1- and 2-year post-burn units, and monitored for similar to 10 days. Additionally, 1-ha plots on each 1-, 2- and 3-year (n = 15) post-burn units were flush-netted once monthly. Telemetry results indicated Le Conte's Sparrows were sedentary during winter with a 50% probability mean home-range of 2.41 ha (72% < 1 ha) and a 95% probability mean home range of 10.31 ha (44% < 1 ha and 55% < 1.5 ha). Home-range size did not differ between post-burn year 1 and 2 (P = 0.227). Le Conte's Sparrows appeared to exhibit a behavioral response to flush-netting (P < 0.001) with estimated capture probability of 0.462 and recapture probability of 0.056. Our findings suggest Le Conte's Sparrows remain fairly sedentary throughout the winter. Received 28 March 2008. Accepted 7 August 2009.	[Baldwin, HQ] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Jeske, CW; Chadwick, PC; Barrow, WC] US Geol Survey, Natl Wetlands Res Ctr, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA; [Powell, MA] Natl Pk Serv, Moab, UT 84532 USA	Baldwin, HQ (reprint author), USGS, IAP World Serv, Natl Wetlands Res Ctr, 700 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA.	heather_baldwin@usgs.gov			2	9	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2010	MAR	122	1				139	145	7	10.1676/08-160.1	627LP	CCC:000280041300018					2019-04-10J	Drever, MCMartin, K	Drever, Mark C.; Martin, Kathy		Response of woodpeckers to changes in forest health and harvest: Implications for conservation of avian biodiversity	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Indicators, Woodpeckers, Mountain pine beetle, Trembling aspen, Forest birds, Variable retention	MOUNTAIN PINE-BEETLE, NESTING COMMUNITIES, POPULATION-DYNAMICS, WESTERN CANADA, BOREAL FOREST, CAVITY, BIRDS, INDICATORS, ABUNDANCE, RICHNESS	Woodpeckers (family Picidae) merit specific monitoring and management efforts, both as keystone/facilitator species and as indicators of forest condition. Recent studies indicated that species richness of woodpeckers was correlated with richness of all forest birds, thus suggesting potential exists for management practices that can address needs of woodpeckers in particular and other forest birds in general. We used data from a long-term study (1995-2008) from forest sites in the interior of British Columbia to evaluate how abundances of seven woodpecker species varied with habitat variables previously identified as associated with forest bird richness. We found that tree species richness had either a neutral or positive effect on the abundance of all woodpecker species, whereas abundances of most woodpecker species tended to be lower in stands with high densities of lodgepole pine. Abundances of most woodpecker species were positively correlated with density of beetle-killed pines. Relative to control sites, higher densities of most woodpecker species were found at harvested sites where most trembling aspen and large Douglas-fir trees had been retained. Therefore, management strategies that favour a mixture of tree species, with particular attention to retention of aspen, should safeguard populations of most woodpecker species. Abundances of individual woodpecker species were weakly but positively inter-correlated before the beetle outbreak, and less so during and post-outbreak. It thus appears that no strong trade-offs exist among woodpecker species. These results, combined with previously identified positive correlations between woodpecker and forest bird richness, indicate woodpeckers can be managed as a suite for the purpose of managing avian biodiversity as a whole. Crown Copyright (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Drever, MC; Martin, K] Univ British Columbia, Dept Forest Sci, Ctr Appl Conservat Res, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada; [Martin, K] Environm Canada, Pacific Wildlife Res Ctr, Delta, BC V4K 3N2, Canada	Drever, MC (reprint author), Univ British Columbia, Dept Forest Sci, Ctr Appl Conservat Res, 2424 Main Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada.	mdrever@interchange.ubc.ca			2	64	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2010	FEB	259	5				958	966	9		564OB	CCC:000275223300012					2019-04-10J	Alcaide, MNegro, JJSerrano, DAntolin, JLCasado, SPomarol, M	Alcaide, Miguel; Negro, Juan J.; Serrano, David; Antolin, Jose L.; Casado, Sara; Pomarol, Manel		Captive breeding and reintroduction of the lesser kestrel Falco naumanni: a genetic analysis using microsatellites	CONSERVATION GENETICS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Genetic diversity, Conservation genetics, Effective population size, Founder effect, Mixed reproductive strategies	REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS, EFFECTIVE NUMBER, BEARDED VULTURE, POPULATION, CONSEQUENCES, COLONY, DNA, CONSERVATION, ATTRACTION, MANAGEMENT	We used microsatellites to assess ongoing captive breeding and reintroduction programs of the lesser kestrel. The extent of genetic variation within the captive populations analysed did not differ significantly from that reported in wild populations. Thus, the application of widely recommended management practices, such as the registration of crosses between individuals in proper stud books and the introduction of new individuals into the genetic pools, has proven satisfactory to maintain high levels of genetic variation. The high rates of hatching failure occasionally documented in captivity can therefore not be attributed to depressed genetic variation. Even though genetic diversity in reintroduced populations did not differ significantly when compared to wild populations either, average observed heterozygosities and inbreeding coefficients were significantly lower and higher, respectively, when compared to the captive demes where released birds came. Monitoring of reproductive parameters during single-pairing breeding and paternity inference within colonial facilities revealed large variations in breeding success between reproductive adults. The relative number of breeding pairs that contributed to a large part of captive-born birds (50-56%) was similar in both cases (28.6 and 26.9%, respectively). Thus, the chances for polygyny (rarely in this study), extra- pair paternity (not found in this study) and/or social stimulation of breeding parameters do not seem to greatly affect the genetically effective population size. Independently of breeding strategies, the release of unrelated fledglings into the same area and the promotion of immigration should be mandatory to counteract founder effects and avoid inbreeding in reintroduced populations of lesser kestrels.	[Alcaide, M; Negro, JJ; Serrano, D] CSIC, Estac Biol Donana, Seville 41013, Spain; [Antolin, JL] DEMA, Almendralejo 06200, Spain; [Casado, S] Grp Rehabil Fauna Autoctona & Habitat, GREFA, Majadahonda 28220, Spain; [Pomarol, M] Serv Protecio Gestio Fauna, Ctr Recuperac Torreferrusa, Barcelona 08037, Spain	Alcaide, M (reprint author), CSIC, Estac Biol Donana, Avda Ma Luisa S-N, Seville 41013, Spain.	malcaide@ebd.csic.es	Serrano, David/B-5352-2013; Negro, Juan/I-2653-2015; Alcaide, Miguel/A-1400-2012; CSIC, EBD Donana/C-4157-2011	Serrano, David/0000-0001-6205-386X; Negro, Juan/0000-0002-8697-5647; CSIC, EBD Donana/0000-0003-4318-6602	3	49	SPRINGER	DORDRECHT	VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS	http://www.springeronline.com	1566-0621		CONSERV GENET	Conserv. Genet.	2010	FEB	11	1				331	338	8		545OQ	CCC:000273744300030					2019-04-10J	Hurteau, SSisk, TDickson, BGBlock, W	Hurteau, Sarah; Sisk, Thomas; Dickson, Brett G.; Block, William		Variability in Nest Density, Occupancy, and Home Range Size of Western Bluebirds after Forest Treatments	FOREST SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	prescribed fire, thinning, Sialia mexicana, Western Bluebird, forest treatments, mechanical	PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, NORTHERN ARIZONA, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, BIRD COMMUNITIES, PRESCRIBED FIRE, SIERRA-NEVADA, SNAG DENSITY, HABITAT, SUCCESS, USA	Complex land use and fuels management histories have resulted in significant changes in composition, structure, and function of southwestern forests and subsequent changes in the extent and quality of wildlife habitats. We evaluated how several currently used fuel reduction treatments (e.g., mechanical thinning and prescribed fire alone and in combination) affect nest attributes, nest density, nest tree occupancy, and home range size of Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana) in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa)-dominated forests of northern Arizona. Nest attributes, such as number of eggs or nestlings, varied among treatments, but did not differ statistically. Western Bluebird nest density was significantly influenced by treatment, with densities higher in treated areas, even though snag density was lower in treated areas than in control areas. The average (+/-SE) area of the 50% contour, across all treatment units, was 0.42 +/- 0.07 ha, and the average area of the 90% contour was 2.36 +/- 0.30 ha. Home range sizes for both probability contours evaluated were 1.5 times larger in the thin-only treatments than in the control units. Conversely, home range area in thin-and-burn treatments was approximately 30% smaller than in control units. The largest home ranges occurred in the burn-only treatments. Our results suggest that forest treatments, such as thinning and prescribed fire are, in general, beneficial to Western Bluebirds, but that low snag retention may be problematic in areas receiving prescribed fire as part of their treatment action. FOR. SCI. 56(1):131-138.	[Sisk, T; Dickson, BG] No Arizona Univ, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Block, W] US Forest Serv, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Morgantown, WV USA	Hurteau, S (reprint author), 114 N San Francisco St, Flagstaff, AZ 86001 USA.	shurteau@tnc.org; thomas.sisk@nau.edu; brett.dickson@nau.edu; wblock@fs.fed.us			1	13	SOC AMER FORESTERS	BETHESDA	5400 GROSVENOR LANE, BETHESDA, MD 20814 USA	http://www.safnet.org	0015-749X		FOREST SCI	For. Sci.	2010	FEB	56	1			SI	131	138	8		558VJ	CCC:000274776000012					2019-04-10J	Eyre, TJButler, DWKelly, ALWang, J	Eyre, Teresa J.; Butler, Don W.; Kelly, Annie L.; Wang, Jian		Effects of forest management on structural features important for biodiversity in mixed-age hardwood forests in Australia's subtropics	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Review	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biodiversity indicators, Stand structure, Selective logging, Livestock grazing, Coarse woody debris, Tree hollows	COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, NEW-SOUTH-WALES, YELLOW-BELLIED GLIDER, LARGE GLIDING POSSUMS, REGIONAL HABITAT SELECTION, EUCALYPTUS-MACULATA FOREST, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, MONTANE ASH FORESTS, DOUGLAS-FIR FORESTS, PRESCRIBED FIRE	The contiguous forest landscapes of the Brigalow Belt Bioregion in Australia's subtropics, known as 'the western hardwood forests' are thought to be important for biodiversity conservation through the provision of continuous habitat features in an otherwise extensively cleared region. However, these forests have a long management history, as they are also important for timber production and stock grazing. Knowledge of the effect of these and other disturbances on the distribution and abundance of key structural or habitat features are limited and forest management activities thus continue uninformed. To address this knowledge gap, we investigated the effects of prescribed and non-prescribed disturbances on the distribution and abundance of six key habitat features (live and dead trees with hollows, large mature live trees, shrub abundance, downed coarse woody debris and litter cover) at 120 sites located in spotted gum Corymbia citriodora dominant forests within the western hardwoods.Logged stands had a lower mean abundance of live trees with hollows (2.5 +/- 0.6 ha(-1)) than unlogged stands (6.2 +/- 0.8 ha(-1)). This is below current timber harvesting prescriptions which outline the retention of 6 live trees with hollows ha(-1). Since only 13.5% of western hardwood forest under state forest tenure remains unlogged, live trees with hollows are currently limited throughout the majority of the western hardwood forests. Recent wildfire in the region also meant reduced numbers of live trees with hollows. Logging affected the abundance of large, live trees, with highest densities occurring in the less intensively logged stands. Given the close relationship between increased tree diameter and hollow occurrence across a number of tree species, the small area of unlogged forest remaining in the region suggests that the pool of trees that may eventually form hollows may also be limited. The density of dead trees with hollows was strongly reduced by fire; by both low-frequency but high-intensity fires (wildfire) and by high-frequency but low-intensity burns associated with stock grazing management. Increased grazing was also associated with decreased abundance of shrubs and less downed coarse woody debris. Other than decreasing with increased logging intensity, litter cover did not appear to be influenced by other disturbance regimes, at least not by the long term correlational approach of our investigation. Overall, our results suggest that although forest management in the western hardwood forests could currently be described as low-intensity, it is extensive and impacts are discernible and cumulative. We highlight the need for a landscape approach to be taken in managing the various land uses for both production and biodiversity within the contiguous western hardwood forests. Crown Copyright (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Eyre, TJ; Butler, DW; Kelly, AL; Wang, J] Queensland Dept Environm & Resource Management, Biodivers & Ecosyst Sci Unit, Indooroopilly, Qld 4068, Australia	Eyre, TJ (reprint author), Queensland Dept Environm & Resource Management, Biodivers & Ecosyst Sci Unit, 80 Meiers Rd, Indooroopilly, Qld 4068, Australia.	teresa.eyre@derm.qld.gov.au			1	45	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2010	JAN	259	3				534	546	13		548SG	CCC:000273986000034					2019-04-10J	Oliveira, LCHankerson, SJDietz, JMRaboy, BE	Oliveira, L. C.; Hankerson, S. J.; Dietz, J. M.; Raboy, B. E.		Key tree species for the golden-headed lion tamarin and implications for shade-cocoa management in southern Bahia, Brazil	ANIMAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Leontopithecus chrysomelas, diet, sleeping sites, agroforest, cabruca management, Atlantic forest	ATLANTIC FOREST TREES, CACAO PLANTATIONS, LEONTOPITHECUS-CHRYSOMELAS, BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION, SOUTHEASTERN BRAZIL, LANDSCAPE, AGROFORESTRY, DIVERSITY, BEHAVIOR, ECOLOGY	The golden-headed lion tamarin Leontopithecus chrysomelas occurs in the Atlantic forest of southern Bahia, Brazil, where shade-cocoa agroforestry (known as cabruca) predominates. The economic decline of the cocoa industry has caused many landowners to convert cabruca into cattle pasture or diversify their plantations with other crops. These and prior anthropogenic disturbances such as habitat fragmentation are threatening lion tamarin persistence. For some lion tamarin groups, cabruca comprises a large part of their home range. Considering these factors, the maintenance of the biological diversity in cabruca favorable to golden-headed lion tamarins is of considerable interest to their long-term survival. Here we identify plant species that provide food and sleeping sites for the lion tamarins and examine their occurrence in cabruca plantations, in order to investigate alternatives for conservation management practices that benefit both lion tamarins and cabruca. We determined the total number of trees and the frequency of individuals and species used for food and sleeping sites by lion tamarins in Una Biological Reserve, Bahia, from 1998 to 2006. We used this information to compare the richness and frequency of use across habitats (cabruca, mature and secondary) and to create a ranking index considering various components of a tree species' utility to the lion tamarins. Lion tamarins used 155 tree species, 93 for food and 93 for sleeping sites. Fifty-five species were ranked as 'Extremely Valuable,' eight as 'Valuable' and 92 as 'Of Interest.' Of 48 families, Myrtaceae and Sapotaceae were used the most. Cabruca contained fewer individual trees used by lion tamarins, but the highest frequency of use per tree compared with other habitats, indicating the large influence of single trees in these plantations. Using the key tree species identified in our study in the management of cabruca would be of considerable benefit to the long-term survival of lion tamarins.	[Oliveira, LC; Dietz, JM; Raboy, BE] IESB, BR-45653145 Salvador, Brazil; [Oliveira, LC] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Hankerson, SJ] Univ Maryland, Grad Program Behav Ecol Evolut & Systemat, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Raboy, BE] Smithsonian Inst, Natl Zool Pk, Dept Conservat Biol, Washington, DC 20008 USA	Oliveira, LC (reprint author), IESB, Rua Araujo Pinho,72-3 Andar Ctr Ilheus, BR-45653145 Salvador, Brazil.	leoecol@umd.edu	Oliveira, Leonardo/G-1290-2012	Oliveira, Leonardo/0000-0002-1774-0713	3	50	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1367-9430		ANIM CONSERV	Anim. Conserv.	2010	JAN	13	1				60	70	11		550RA	CCC:000274144800013					2019-04-10J	Davey, CMVickery, JABoatman, NDChamberlain, DESiriwardena, GM	Davey, Catherine M.; Vickery, Juliet A.; Boatman, Nigel D.; Chamberlain, Dan E.; Siriwardena, Gavin M.		Entry Level Stewardship may enhance bird numbers in boundary habitats	BIRD STUDY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology			Capsule Hedgerows and margins managed under agri-environment schemes appear to attract greater numbers of some farmland bird species.Aims To examine fine-scale habitat associations of farmland birds to determine whether Entry Level Stewardship, the wider countryside agri-environment scheme for England, provides a mechanism for affecting population changes.Methods Ninety-seven 1-km squares in East Anglia were surveyed to create two-dimensional habitat maps showing the location of all habitat patches and associated stewardship management. Modified territory-mapping techniques were used to produce relative estimates of bird numbers within each discrete habitat patch within each square. The effect of Entry Level Stewardship on species density was then analysed using GLMs.Results Boundaries managed under Entry Level Stewardship appeared to attract higher densities of Blue Tits, Dunnocks, Common Whitethroats and Yellowhammers. Margins managed under the scheme also had higher densities of Yellowhammers.Conclusions Existing boundary habitat management under Entry Level Stewardship may provide a mechanism for increasing the populations of some farmland bird species. Boundary management options should continue to be promoted, although rebalancing the scheme more towards in-field options is likely to be more widely beneficial.	[Davey, CM; Vickery, JA; Chamberlain, DE; Siriwardena, GM] British Trust Ornithol, Thetford IP24 2PU, Beds, England; [Boatman, ND] Food & Environm Res Agcy, York YO41 1LZ, N Yorkshire, England	Davey, CM (reprint author), CSIRO, Perth, WA 6913, Australia.	cath.davey@csiro.au	Chamberlain, Dan/K-1809-2015; Tayleur, Catherine/	Chamberlain, Dan/0000-0002-5381-2024; Tayleur, Catherine/0000-0002-7981-0086	4	22	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandf.co.uk	0006-3657		BIRD STUDY	Bird Stud.	2010		57	4				415	420	6	10.1080/00063657.2010.505642	725NE	CCC:000287651300002					2019-04-10J	Garcia-Del-Rey, EOtto, RFernandez-Palacios, JMMunoz, PGGil, L	Garcia-Del-Rey, Eduardo; Otto, Ruediger; Maria Fernandez-Palacios, Jose; Gil Munoz, Pascual; Gil, Luis		Effects of wildfire on endemic breeding birds in a Pinus canariensis forest of Tenerife, Canary Islands	ECOSCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	breeding birds, Canary Islands, community ecology, fire, forest management, Fringilla teydea, Mediterranean, Pinus canariensis	BURN SEVERITY, CONIFER FORESTS, PRESCRIBED FIRE, SOIL N, COMMUNITIES, ASSEMBLAGES, MANAGEMENT, CHRONOSEQUENCE, WOODPECKER, RESPONSES	Fire is a key ecological force in pine forests worldwide, and faunal responses to this disturbance have been a major topic of ecology, yet little is known for oceanic island environments. Using line transects we surveyed the bird community of a natural Pinus canariensis forest burned in the summer of 2007 on Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain. Our goal was to identify important environmental variables and the thresholds that influenced the pattern of bird abundance at the community, foraging guild, and species-specific level. Models were constructed by means of regression trees and cross validation applying the 1-SE rule. Mixed results were observed and only 2 species were clearly affected by fire severity. Overall, total bird abundance, total species richness, and total bird diversity were positively influenced by low, very low, and moderate canopy fire severity, respectively, and the presence of either Erica or Myrica shrubs. Consequently, high canopy fire severity had an overall negative effect on bird community characteristics. Abundance of Myrica shrubs affected positively general ground foragers such as common blackbird (Turdus merula cabrerae) and Canary Islands chiffchaff (Phylloscopus canariensis), a canopy forager. The number of thin trees was important for canopy foragers such as goldcrest (Regulus regulus teneriffae) and African blue tit (Cyanistes teneriffae teneriffae), but also for a bark forager, the great spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopos major canariensis). European robin (Erithacus rubecula superbus) and the ubiquitous endemic blue chaffinch (Fringilla teydea teydea) were influenced by low and moderate canopy fire severity, respectively. We recommend that land managers incorporate these results into future post-fire management plans. Priority post-fire actions should be directed toward the protection and conservation of the endemic blue chaffinch, a species of conservation concern on the nearby island of Gran Canaria.	[Garcia-Del-Rey, E; Otto, R; Fernandez-Palacios, JM] Univ La Laguna, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol, E-38206 Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain; [Munoz, PG] Cabildo Insular Tenerife, Secc Montes, Santa Cruz de Tenerife 38200, Canary Islands, Spain; [Gil, L] ETSIM UPM, Unidad Anat Fisiol & Genet, Madrid 28040, Spain	Garcia-Del-Rey, E (reprint author), Univ La Laguna, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol, E-38206 Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain.	edugdr@ull.es	Fernandez-Palacios, Jose Maria/H-2054-2015; Gil, Luis/E-3216-2014	Fernandez-Palacios, Jose Maria/0000-0001-9741-6878; Gil, Luis/0000-0002-5252-2607	0	34	UNIVERSITE LAVAL	ST FOY	PAVILLON CHARLES-EUGENE MARCHAND, LOCAL 0166, ST FOY, QUEBEC G1K 7P4, CANADA	http:www.ecoscience.ulaval.ca	1195-6860		ECOSCIENCE	Ecoscience	2010		17	3				298	311	14	10.2980/17-3-3321	662RA	CCC:000282827800007					2019-04-10J	Leavesley, AJCary, GJEdwards, GPGill, AM	Leavesley, Adam J.; Cary, Geoffrey J.; Edwards, Glenn P.; Gill, A. Malcolm		The effect of fire on birds of mulga woodland in arid central Australia	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF WILDLAND FIRE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Acacia aneura, arid zone, fire ecology, guilds, time-since-fire, vegetation structure	AVIFAUNAL RESPONSES, SPECIES RICHNESS, MANAGEMENT, COMMUNITIES, ECOLOGY, DESERT, CONSERVATION, ASSEMBLAGES, POPULATIONS, SUCCESSION	The principal ecosystem driver in arid Australia is unpredictable rainfall, but it is hypothesised that fire also plays an important role in determining the distribution of animals. We investigated the effect of fire on birds in mulga (Acacia aneura) woodland in the central Australian arid zone. The study was conducted at Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park using 63 sites classified into one of three time-since-fire classes: burnt 2002; burnt 1976; and long-unburnt. Birds were sampled in the winter and spring of 2005 and 2006 and vegetation structure was measured at all sites. Vegetation structure varied with time-since-fire. The burnt 2002 treatment was an early seral stage of mulga woodland and effectively a grassland. The burnt 1976 and long-unburnt treatments were both woodland, but the long-unburnt treatment had greater canopy cover and height. The bird community in the burnt 2002 treatment was characterised by granivores, whereas that in the burnt 1976 and long-unburnt treatments was characterised by foliar insectivores. All species showed monotonic responses to time-since-fire (i.e. none were at significantly highest density in the burnt 1976 treatment). Fire in mulga woodland changed the vegetation structure and consequently also changed the composition of the bird communities.	[Leavesley, AJ; Cary, GJ; Gill, AM] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Acton, ACT 0200, Australia; [Leavesley, AJ; Cary, GJ; Gill, AM] Bushfire Cooperat Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic 3002, Australia; [Leavesley, AJ; Edwards, GP] Desert Knowledge Cooperat Res Ctr, Alice Springs, NT 0870, Australia; [Edwards, GP] Pk & Wildlife Serv No Terr, Dept Nat Resources Environm Arts & Sport, Alice Springs, NT 0870, Australia	Leavesley, AJ (reprint author), Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Acton, ACT 0200, Australia.	adam.leavesley@anu.edu.au		Cary, Geoffrey J./0000-0002-6386-1751	0	22	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1049-8001		INT J WILDLAND FIRE	Int. J. Wildland Fire	2010		19	7				949	960	12	10.1071/WF09028	706AJ	CCC:000286183100013					2019-04-10J	Bussmann, RWGruhn, JGlenn, A	Bussmann, Rainer W.; Gruhn, Jennifer; Glenn, Ashley		Axinaea fernando-cabiesii and A. reginae spp. nov. (Melastomataceae) from upper Amazonia of Peru, with notes on the conservation status of A. flava	NORDIC JOURNAL OF BOTANY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences		ECUADOR	Two new Peruvian species of Axinaea (Melastomataceae) are described. Axinaea francisco-cabiesii and Axinaea reginae are small trees, endemic to the cloud forest zone in the northern Andean region of Peru. The border region of Peru and Ecuador is one of the Earth's most biologically diverse areas. The Huancabamba depression of the central Andean Cordillera allows for dispersal of flora and fauna between the Amazon Basin and the Pacific lowlands. Additionally, the region is characterized by a fast transition between the humid mountain forests of the northern Andes and the dry, deciduous forests of the northern Peruvian lowlands, making it a hotspot for endemic species. Field observations indicate that both new Axinaea species have small population sizes, occurring in a very restricted habitat. Axinaea flava was described only a few years ago from the cloud forest - paramo transition zone in southernmost Ecuador between 3400 and 3800 m a.s.l. This small tree is the only yellow-flowered species of the genus. The original assessment counted about 100 individuals. In the last decade, livestock grazing and widespread burning have intensified in the region, and a new assessment yielded only 10 individuals, four of which were damaged by fire. This puts the species in danger of extinction. We encourage search for other populations in southern Ecuador and northern Peru.	[Bussmann, RW; Gruhn, J; Glenn, A] Missouri Bot Garden, William L Brown Ctr, St Louis, MO 63166 USA	Bussmann, RW (reprint author), Missouri Bot Garden, William L Brown Ctr, POB 299, St Louis, MO 63166 USA.	rainer.bussmann@mobot.org	Bussmann, Rainer W/S-3660-2018	Bussmann, Rainer W/0000-0002-3524-5273	0	2	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0107-055X		NORD J BOT	Nord. J. Bot.	2010		28	5				518	522	5	10.1111/j.1756-1051.2010.00891.x	679OB	CCC:000284169600003					2019-04-10J	Maglianesi, MA	Alejandra Maglianesi, Maria		Avifauna associated to native forest and forest plantations of exotic conifers in the Reserva Forestal Grecia, Costa Rica	ORNITOLOGIA NEOTROPICAL			Spanish	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	Bird communities, exotic plantation, native secondary forest, Costa Rica, Reserva Forestal Grecia	SPECIES-DIVERSITY, BIRD COMMUNITIES, BIODIVERSITY, CONSERVATION, TEMPERATE, ABUNDANCE, RICHNESS, INSECTS, INDEXES	Avifauna associated to native forest and forest plantations of exotic conifers in the Reserva Forestal Grecia, Costa Rica. - Forest plantations of exotic conifers have been used as a management strategy for restoring forests in many areas of the Neotropics. However, there is a remarkable lack of information of these plantations on the value for conservation biodiversity. To evaluate these plantations as habitat for wildlife, I studied bird communities in native secondary forest and in plantation of exotic tree species (Pinus oocarpa and Cupressus lusitanica) in the Reserva Forestal Grecia, Costa Rica. Bird assemblage composition, richness, abundance, diversity, and evenness were compared between habitats using the fixed-radius point count method. Fieldwork was conducted from September 2008 to May 2009. A total of 743 birds of 79 species corresponding to 10 orders and 25 families were recorded. The bird composition varied across habitats, sharing 51.9% of the same bird species. Although I found no significant differences in the patterns of bird diversity or evenness, the native forest had a greater bird richness and abundance than the plantation. This could be explained by the higher spatial heterogeneity and productivity in the native forest than in the plantation. On the basis of these results, secondary native forests seem to have a greater value for bird conservation than conifer plantations. Therefore, some management measures could favor bird communities in the Reserva Forestal Grecia, such as the implementation of strategies for ecological restoration in order to gradually replace the exotic vegetation by native species which offer more resources available for bird populations. The continuation of studies in plantations of exotic conifers may provide more knowledge that will allow a better understanding of the role played by exotic plantations in maintaining bird populations and biodiversity in general.	Univ Estatal Distancia UNED, Vicerrectoria Invest, San Jose, Costa Rica	Maglianesi, MA (reprint author), Univ Estatal Distancia UNED, Vicerrectoria Invest, Apartado 47-4-2050, San Jose, Costa Rica.	mmaglianesi@uned.ac.cr			2	17	NEOTROPICAL ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC, USGS PATUXENT WILDLIFE RESEARCH CTR	ATHENS	UNIV GEORGIA, WARNELL SCH FOREST RESOURCES, ATHENS, GA 30602-2152 USA		1075-4377		ORNITOL NEOTROP	ORNITOL. NEOTROP.	2010		21	3				339	350	12		662JV	CCC:000282804500003					2019-04-10J	Liira, JKohv, K	Liira, J.; Kohv, K.		Stand characteristics and biodiversity indicators along the productivity gradient in boreal forests: Defining a critical set of indicators for the monitoring of habitat nature quality	PLANT BIOSYSTEMS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Anthropogenic disturbance, biodiversity indicators, conservation value, dead wood, habitat quality, monitoring, old-growth forest, stand structure	COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, OLD-GROWTH FOREST, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, COST-EFFECTIVENESS, SOUTHERN FINLAND, MANAGED FORESTS, DEAD WOOD, LANDSCAPE	We quantified the effects of anthropogenic disturbances on the structure and biodiversity of boreal forests on acidic soils and created a statistically supported rational set of indicators to monitor the stand onaturalnesso. For that, we surveyed various traits of tree layer, understory, herb layer, forest floor and several widely accepted biodiversity epiphytic indicators in 252 old-aged boreal stands in Estonia, mostly dominated by Scots pine or Norway spruce. Multifactorial general linear model analyses showed that many forest characteristics and potential indicators were confounded by the gradient of soil productivity (reflected by the forest site type), local biogeographic gradients and also by stand age. Considering confounding effects, boreal forests in a near-natural state have more large-diameter trees (diameter at breast height 40 cm) and larger variety of diameter classes, higher proportion of spruce or deciduous trees, a larger amount of coarse woody debris in various stages, a more closed tree canopy and denser understory than managed mature forests. By increasing light availability above the field layer, forest management indirectly increases the coverage of herbs and lichens on the forest floor but reduces the alpha- and beta-diversity of herbs and the proportion of graminoids. Human disturbances reduce the relative incidence of many commonly accepted biodiversity indicators such as indicator lichens, woodpeckers, wood-dwelling insects or fungi on trees. The test for the predictive power of characteristics reacting on disturbance revealed that only a fraction of them appeared to be included in a diagnostic easy-to-apply set of indicators to assess the nature quality of boreal forest: the amount of dead wood, the proportion of deciduous trees, the presence of specially shaped trees and woodpeckers and, as an indicator of disturbances, the forest herb Melampyrum pratensis. Many of these indicators have already been implemented in practice.	[Liira, J] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Dept Bot, EE-51005 Tartu, Estonia; [Kohv, K] Estonian Fund Nat, Tartu, Estonia	Liira, J (reprint author), Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Dept Bot, 40 Lai St, EE-51005 Tartu, Estonia.	jaan.liira@ut.ee	Liira, Jaan/G-9879-2015	Liira, Jaan/0000-0001-8863-0098	3	58	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.tandf.co.uk	1126-3504		PLANT BIOSYST	Plant Biosyst.	2010		144	1				211	220	10		596GJ	CCC:000277672800019					2019-04-10J	Kacki, ZMichalska-Hejduk, D	Kacki, Zygmunt; Michalska-Hejduk, Dorota		Assessment of Biodiversity in Molinia Meadows in Kampinoski National Park Based on Biocenotic Indicators	POLISH JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	species diversity, disturbance index, vegetation changes, mowing tolerance, abandoned meadows	PLANT-SPECIES RICHNESS, FEN-MEADOW, VEGETATION CLASSIFICATION, SECONDARY SUCCESSION, SOUTHERN POLAND, WET MEADOWS, DIVERSITY, GRASSLANDS, SOIL, MANAGEMENT	Communities of purple moor-grass meadows are generally decreasing. Many important problems of classification and phytogeography are connected with them. The main goal of the present study was to evaluate changes in species diversity that took place after mowing of Molinion meadows in Kampinoski National Park was discontinued from 1993 to 2006. Selected Molinion meadows in the park were evaluated in terms of their biological diversity. The data collected represented meadows that were still maintained, as well as meadows that had been abandoned at different times in the past. Biodiversity was evaluated using standard ecological indices and Disturbance Index (Z). In general, the Disturbance Index showed an increase in plant community forms that were abandoned or invaded by alien species. An association that was most like the typical form was seen in well maintained meadows, which suggests that the Disturbance Index continually rises with time after a meadow is abandoned. Ecological strategies and mowing tolerance were determined with the help of the BIOLFLOR database. Numerical classification revealed a highly diverse pattern of variability in the meadows examined. Correlations between ecological indicators and phytocenotic variability in Molinion meadows were also evaluated. Unmanaged meadows were compared to meadows in which meadow conservation management practices were carried out.	[Kacki, Z] Univ Wroclaw, Dept Biodivers & Plant Cover Protect, PL-50137 Wroclaw, Poland; [Michalska-Hejduk, D] Univ Lodz, Dept Geobot & Plant Ecol, PL-90237 Lodz, Poland	Kacki, Z (reprint author), Univ Wroclaw, Dept Biodivers & Plant Cover Protect, Kanonia 6-8, PL-50137 Wroclaw, Poland.	kackiz@biol.uni.wroc.pl; dhejduk@biol.uni.lodz.pl	Wrbka, Thomas/A-5699-2010; Michalska-Hejduk, Dorota/	Wrbka, Thomas/0000-0002-1451-9108; Michalska-Hejduk, Dorota/0000-0003-3135-4445	1	9	HARD	OLSZTYN 5	POST-OFFICE BOX, 10-718 OLSZTYN 5, POLAND		1230-1485		POL J ENVIRON STUD	Pol. J. Environ. Stud.	2010		19	2				351	362	12		600RX	CCC:000278006100013					2019-04-10J	Bonnot, TWMillspaugh, JJRumble, M	Bonnot, Thomas W.; Millspaugh, Joshua J.; Rumble, Mark		Multi-scale nest-site selection by black-backed woodpeckers in outbreaks of mountain pine beetles	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Discrete choice, Wood borer, Picoides arcticus, Post-fire, Habitat	PICOIDES-TRIDACTYLUS, RESOURCE SELECTION, BIRD POPULATIONS, CONIFER FORESTS, SIERRA-NEVADA, FIRE, ABUNDANCE, WILDFIRE, ECOLOGY, COMMUNITIES	Areas of mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins) outbreaks in the Black Hills can provide habitat for black-backed woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus), a U.S. Forest Service, Region 2 Sensitive Species. These outbreaks are managed through removal of trees infested with mountain pine beetles to control mountain pine beetle populations and salvage timber resources. To minimize impacts to black-backed woodpeckers while meeting management objectives, there is a need to identify characteristics of these areas that support black-backed woodpeckers. We examined the habitat associations of this species nesting in areas of beetle outbreaks in the Black Hills, South Dakota in 2004 and 2005. We used an information theoretic approach and discrete choice models to evaluate nest-site selection of 42 woodpecker nests at 3 spatial scales-territory, nest area, and nest tree. At the territory scale (250 m around nest), availability and distribution of food best explained black-backed woodpecker selection of beetle outbreaks versus the surrounding forest. Selection at the territory scale was positively associated with densities of trees currently infested by mountain pine beetles and indices of wood borer (Cerambycidae and Buprestidae) abundance, and was greatest at distances of 50-100 m from the nearest patch of infestation. At the nest-area scale (12.5 m radius around the nest), densities of snags positively influenced nest-area selection. Finally, at the nest-tree scale, aspen (Populus tremuloides) and 3-5-year-old ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) snags were important resources. The association between abundant wood-boring insects and black-backed woodpeckers creates a difficult challenge for forest managers. In the absence of fire, areas of beetle outbreak might serve as the only substantial source of habitat in the Black Hills. Regulating insect populations via salvage logging will reduce key food resources to black-backed woodpeckers during nesting. Therefore, given the relatively infrequent occurrence of large-scale fire in the Black Hills, management should recognize the importance of beetle-killed forests to the long-term viability of the black-backed woodpecker population in the Black Hills. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Bonnot, TW; Millspaugh, JJ] Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Rumble, M] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Rapid City, SD 57702 USA	Bonnot, TW (reprint author), Univ Missouri, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife Sci, 302 Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA.	bonnott@missouri.edu; millspaughj@missouri.edu; mrumble@fs.fed.us		Bonnot, Thomas/0000-0001-7114-8246	3	31	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	DEC	259	2				220	228	9		534IO	CCC:000272890000009					2019-04-10J	Simmons, RELegra, LAT	Simmons, Robert E.; Legra, Leo A. T.		Is the Papuan Harrier Circus spilonotus spilothorax a globally threatened species? Ecology, climate change threats and first population estimates from Papua New Guinea	BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		LOWLAND RAIN-FOREST, MT WILHELM, VEGETATION, BIODIVERSITY, INDONESIA, PATTERNS, WILDFIRE	We undertook a 3-week expedition to Papua New Guinea in April-May 2007 to assess the breeding, threats and Population densities of the Papuan Harrier Circus spilonotus spilothorax and to determine a first global Population estimate for this almost entirely unknown species. Two of the first nests known were discovered in April 2007 with three chicks each, in the eastern lowlands, in rank grass and reeds. The melanistic form of this subspecies was more common in the lowlands (< 1,500 m a.s.l) than in the highlands, but interbreeding of this and the typical form occurred ill the lowlands. Movements of identifiable individuals through two highland grasslands indicated up to eight birds per day oil passage, corroborating local knowledge that other raptors move into the highlands at the start of the dry season (April). Linear road counts indicated no harriers in the wooded highlands but Up to 2.9 harriers 10 km(-1) in lowland grasslands. Area counts gave all average of 6.5 harriers 100 km(-2) in the grasslands and a breeding density of 1.21. nests 100 km(-2). Given that preferred grassland and swamp habitat comprises c. 7% of the forest-dominated island of New Guinea, the global Papuan Harrier Population can be no more than c. 3,600 birds and c. 740 breeding pairs. Wildfires peaked at 38 per month in the Study area, Occur throughout the dry season, and led to the loss of both nests. This suggests that many nests and prey may be lost at critical times and burning may be ultimately detrimental for the species. Grassland fires throughout Indonesia and Papua New Guinea are increasing with climatic warming and ENSO events, so we suggest that the Papuan Harrier may warrant a 'Vulnerable' conservation ranking due to small total Population size and all accelerated reduction in habitat quality due to ongoing climate change.	[Simmons, RE] Univ Cape Town, Fitzpatrick Inst, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa; [Legra, LAT] Wildlife Conservat Soc, Goroka, Eastern Highlan, Papua N Guinea	Simmons, RE (reprint author), Tshwane Univ Technol, Nat Conservat Dept, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa.	Rob.simmons@uct.ac.za			1	8	CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS	NEW YORK	32 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, NY 10013-2473 USA	http://www.cambridge.org	0959-2709		BIRD CONSERV INT	Bird Conserv. Int.	2009	DEC	19	4				379	391	13		535EC	CCC:000272948600006					2019-04-10J	Galle, AMLinz, GMHoman, HJBleier, WJ	Galle, Alegra M.; Linz, George M.; Homan, H. Jeffrey; Bleier, William J.		AVIAN USE OF HARVESTED CROP FIELDS IN NORTH DAKOTA DURING SPRING MIGRATION	WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	birds, untilled land, sunflower, corn, soybeans, small grains, weeds, North Dakota, Prairie Pothole Region	BIRD POPULATIONS, WASTE CORN, WINTER, STOPOVER, ABUNDANCE, FOOD, PREFERENCES, BLACKBIRDS, MANAGEMENT, GRASSLAND	Broad-spectrum herbicide applications and improved harvesting efficiency of crops have reduced the availability of weed seeds and waste grains for game and nongame wildlife. Over the last decade, corn and soybean plantings have steadily increased ill the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) of North Dakota, while sunflower plantings have declined. The PPR is an important corridor for migratory birds,;aid changes in food availabilities at stopover habitats may affect how food resources are used. In early spring 2003 and 2004, we compared bird use of harvested fields of sunflower, soybeans, small grains, and corn if the PPR of North Dakota. Across both years and all crop types, we observed 20,400 birds comprising 29 species. Flocks of Lapland Longspurs (Calcarius lapponicus) and Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) and flocks of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) made up 60% and 15%, respectively, of the bird counts. WC found that species richness and bird densities were higher in harvested sunflower fields and cornfields than in harvested small-grain and soybean fields, with soybean fields harboring the fewest species and lowest bird density Blackbird densities tended to he lower in fields tilled after fall harvest than in fields not tilled. These results suggest that some granivorous bird populations in the Northern Great Plains could he positively affected by planting of row crops with postharvest vertical structure (e.g., Sunflower, corn) and use of no-till land management practices.	[Linz, GM; Homan, HJ] USDA APHIS WS, Natl Wildlife Res Ctr, Bismarck, ND 58501 USA; [Galle, AM; Bleier, WJ] N Dakota State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Fargo, ND 58105 USA	Linz, GM (reprint author), USDA APHIS WS, Natl Wildlife Res Ctr, 2110 Miriam Circle, Bismarck, ND 58501 USA.	george.m.linz@aphis.usda.gov			0	14	BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIV	PROVO	290 LIFE SCIENCE MUSEUM, PROVO, UT 84602 USA	http://www.lib.byu.edu/~nms/	1527-0904		WEST N AM NATURALIST	West. North Am. Naturalist	2009	DEC	69	4				491	500	10	10.3398/064.069.0409	543CS	CCC:000273548100009		Green Published			2019-04-10J	Sirami, CSeymour, CMidgley, GBarnard, P	Sirami, Clelia; Seymour, Colleen; Midgley, Guy; Barnard, Phoebe		The impact of shrub encroachment on savanna bird diversity from local to regional scale	DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	BIOLOGY	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Biome shift, bush encroachment, global change, land cover change, landscape heterogeneity	SOUTH-AFRICA, COMMUNITY COMPOSITION, SPECIES-DIVERSITY, LAND-USE, VEGETATION, RANGELANDS, KALAHARI, FIRE, ACACIA, TREE	AimEvidence is accumulating of a general increase in woody cover of many savanna regions of the world. Little is known about the consequences of this widespread and fundamental ecosystem structural shift on biodiversity.LocationSouth Africa.MethodsWe assessed the potential response of bird species to shrub encroachment in a South African savanna by censusing bird species in five habitats along a gradient of increasing shrub cover, from grassland/open woodland to shrubland dominated by various shrub species. We also explored historical bird species population trends across southern Africa during the second half of the 20th century to determine if any quantifiable shifts had occurred that support an ongoing impact of shrub encroachment at the regional scale.ResultsAt the local scale, species richness peaked at intermediate levels of shrub cover. Bird species composition showed high turnover along the gradient, suggesting that widespread shrub encroachment is likely to lead to the loss of certain species with a concomitant decline in bird species richness at the landscape scale. Finally, savanna bird species responded to changes in vegetation structure rather than vegetation species composition: bird assemblages were very similar in shrublands dominated by Acacia mellifera and those dominated by Tarchonanthus camphoratus.Main conclusionsShrub encroachment might have a bigger impact on bird diversity in grassland than in open woodland, regardless of the shrub species. Species recorded in our study area were associated with historical population changes at the scale of southern Africa suggesting that shrub encroachment could be one of the main drivers of bird population dynamics in southern African savannas. If current trends continue, the persistence of several southern African bird species associated with open savanna might be jeopardized regionally.	[Sirami, C; Midgley, G; Barnard, P] S African Natl Biodivers Inst, Climate Change & BioAdaptat Div, ZA-7735 Cape Town, South Africa; [Sirami, C; Midgley, G] Univ Cape Town, Dept Bot, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa; [Seymour, C] S African Natl Biodivers Inst, Appl Biodivers Res Div, ZA-7735 Cape Town, South Africa; [Barnard, P] Univ Cape Town, Percy FitzPatrick Inst African Ornithol, DST NRF Ctr Excellence, ZA-7701 Rondebosch, South Africa	Sirami, C (reprint author), S African Natl Biodivers Inst, Climate Change & BioAdaptat Div, P Bag X7, ZA-7735 Cape Town, South Africa.	cleliasirami@hotmail.com	Sirami, Clelia/J-9371-2013; Midgley, Guy/H-3585-2014; Seymour, Colleen/	Sirami, Clelia/0000-0003-1741-3082; Midgley, Guy/0000-0001-8264-0869; Seymour, Colleen/0000-0002-6729-2576	4	66	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1366-9516		DIVERS DISTRIB	Divers. Distrib.	2009	NOV	15	6				948	957	10		505XN	CCC:000270735000005					2019-04-10J	Norris, JLChamberlain, MJTwedt, DJ	Norris, Jennifer L.; Chamberlain, Michael J.; Twedt, Daniel J.		Effects of Wildlife Forestry on Abundance of Breeding Birds in Bottomland Hardwood Forests of Louisiana	JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	birds, bottomland hardwood forests, distance methods, Louisiana, Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley, point counts, selective harvest, wildlife forestry	MISSISSIPPI ALLUVIAL VALLEY, UNITED-STATES, SILVICULTURAL SYSTEMS, MANAGEMENT OPTIONS, NORTH-AMERICA, HABITAT USE, COMMUNITIES, CONSERVATION, POPULATION, RESPONSES	Effects of silvicultural activities on birds are of increasing interest because of documented national declines in breeding bird populations for some species and the potential that these declines are in part due to changes in forest habitat. Silviculturally induced disturbances have been advocated as a means to achieve suitable forest conditions for priority wildlife species in bottomland hardwood forests. We evaluated how silvicultural activities on conservation lands in bottomland hardwood forests of Louisiana, USA, influenced species-specific densities of breeding birds. Our data were from independent studies, which used standardized point-count surveys for breeding birds in 124 bottomland hardwood forest stands on 12 management areas. We used Program DISTANCE 5.0, Release 2.0 (Thomas et al. 2006) to estimate density for 43 species with > 50 detections. For 36 of those species we compared density estimates among harvest regimes (individual selection, group selection, extensive harvest, and no harvest). We observed 10 species with similar densities in those harvest regimes compared with densities in stands not harvested. However, we observed 10 species that were negatively impacted by harvest with greater densities in stands not harvested, 9 species with greater densities in individual selection stands, 4 species with greater densities in group selection stands, and 4 species with greater densities in stands receiving an extensive harvest (e.g., > 40% canopy removal). Differences in intensity of harvest influenced densities of breeding birds. Moreover, community-wide avian conservation values of stands subjected to individual and group selection, and stands not harvested, were similar to each other and greater than that of stands subjected to extensive harvest that removed > 40% canopy cover. These results have implications for managers estimating breeding bird populations, in addition to predicting changes in bird communities as a result of prescribed and future forest management practices. (JOURNAL OF WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT 73(8): 1368-1379; 2009)	[Norris, JL; Chamberlain, MJ] Louisiana State Univ, Ctr Agr, Sch Renewable Nat Resources, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Twedt, DJ] US Geol Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Vicksburg, MS 39180 USA	Norris, JL (reprint author), Louisiana State Univ, Ctr Agr, Sch Renewable Nat Resources, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA.	Jennifer.Norris@dnr.state.oh.us		Twedt, Daniel/0000-0003-1223-5045	2	19	WILDLIFE SOC	BETHESDA	5410 GROSVENOR LANE, BETHESDA, MD 20814-2197 USA		0022-541X		J WILDLIFE MANAGE	J. Wildl. Manage.	2009	NOV	73	8				1368	1379	12		515AC	CCC:000271437400015					2019-04-10J	Jacquet, KProdon, R	Jacquet, Karine; Prodon, Roger		Measuring the postfire resilience of a bird-vegetation system: a 28-year study in a Mediterranean oak woodland	OECOLOGIA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Wildfire, Long-term, Restoration, Quercus ilex, Avifauna, Succession	CAPTURE PROBABILITIES VARY, SUCCESSION, FIRE, COMMUNITIES, FOREST, SPAIN, POPULATION, LANDSCAPE, DIVERSITY, DYNAMICS	Despite numerous studies on the response of Mediterranean ecosystems to fire, few have measured the respective resilience of vegetation and fauna compartments. For 28 years, we conducted an annual monitoring of avifauna composition and vegetation structure (cover profile) following a severe wildfire in a holm oak (Quercus ilex) stand in southern France. Our aim was to estimate the time necessary for this bird-vegetation system to return to a state analogous to its pre-fire state. In the burned plots, low herbaceous and shrub layers were gradually replaced by higher, woody layers of vegetation. Neither bird species richness nor inter-annual bird species turnover showed significant differences from one year to the next over the study period. In contrast, bird species composition did change steadily, leading to an almost complete replacement of early-successional species by late-successional ones. Using the first axes of multivariate analyses as 'proxy variables' of vegetation or avifauna recoveries, we estimated by extrapolation the recovery times of these two ecosystem components at ca. 50 and 35 years, respectively. Towards the end of the study period, the rate of change in avifauna composition decreased comparatively to that of vegetation structure. Our results show that holm oak woodlands are highly resilient and seem to tolerate a similar to 50-year fire interval, even if it remains to be assessed how resilient they would be in the case of increased fire frequency. More generally, our multivariate approach, which allows comparative estimations of resilience in different components of an ecosystem using qualitative as well as quantitative criteria, could be applied to various case studies in disturbance and restoration ecology.	[Jacquet, K; Prodon, R] CNRS, CEFE, Ecol Biogeog Vertebres EPHE, UMR 5175, F-34293 Montpellier 5, France	Prodon, R (reprint author), CNRS, CEFE, Ecol Biogeog Vertebres EPHE, UMR 5175, 1919 Route Mende, F-34293 Montpellier 5, France.	k_jacquet@yahoo.fr; roger.prodon@cefe.cnrs.fr			1	35	SPRINGER	NEW YORK	233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA	http://www.springeronline.com	0029-8549		OECOLOGIA	Oecologia	2009	OCT	161	4				801	811	11		495AE	CCC:000269860700015	19727831				2019-04-10J	Chandler, RBKing, DIChandler, CC	Chandler, Richard B.; King, David I.; Chandler, Carlin C.		Effects of management regime on the abundance and nest survival of shrubland birds in wildlife openings in northern New England, USA	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Early-successional habitat, Detectibility, Nest success, Patch area, Scrub-shrub birds, Management history	NORTHEASTERN UNITED-STATES, EARLY-SUCCESSIONAL HABITATS, NEW-HAMPSHIRE, FORESTED LANDSCAPE, AREA-SENSITIVITY, HARDWOOD FOREST, CLEAR-CUT, PATTERNS, POPULATION, SONGBIRD	Many shrubland bird species are declining in eastern North America and as a result forest managers have used a variety of techniques to provide breeding habitat for these species. The maintenance of permanent "wildlife openings" using prescribed burns or mechanical treatments is a widely used approach for providing habitat for these species, but there have been no studies of the effects of treatment regime on bird abundance and nest survival in managed wildlife openings. We studied shrubland birds in wildlife openings on the White Mountain National Forest (WMNF) in New Hampshire and Maine, USA, during 2003 and 2004. We analyzed bird abundance and nest survival in relation to treatment type (burned versus mowed), treatment frequency, time since treatment, and patch area. We found that wildlife openings provided habitat for shrubland birds that are not present in mature forest. There was relatively modest support for models of focal bird species abundance as a function of treatment regime variables, despite pronounced effects of treatment on habitat conditions. This probably was attributable to the combined effects of complex site histories and bird site fidelity. Overall nest success (52%) was comparable to other types of early-successional habitats in the region, but there were few supported relationships between nest survival and treatment variables. We conclude that wildlife openings provide quality habitat for shrubland birds of high conservation interest as long as managers ensure treatment intervals are long enough to permit the development of woody vegetation characteristic of the later stages of this sere. Also, wildlife openings should be large enough to accommodate the territory sizes of all target species, which was >= 1.2 ha in this study. Published by Elsevier B.V.	[Chandler, RB; Chandler, CC] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Nat Resources Conservat, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [King, DI] Univ Massachusetts, No Res Work Unit 4251, USDA Forest Serv, Amherst, MA 01003 USA	Chandler, RB (reprint author), Univ Massachusetts, Dept Nat Resources Conservat, 160 Holdsworth Way,204 Holdsworth Hall, Amherst, MA 01003 USA.	rchandler@nrc.umass.edu	Chandler, Richard/F-9702-2016; Chandler, Richard/D-8831-2014		1	30	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	SEP	258	7				1669	1676	8		498OW	CCC:000270152300074					2019-04-10J	Liira, JSepp, T	Liira, Jaan; Sepp, Toivo		Indicators of structural and habitat natural quality in boreo-nemoral forests along the management gradient	ANNALES BOTANICI FENNICI			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	anthropogenic disturbance, biodiversity indicators, dead wood, ecosystem quality, forest management, indicator species, stand structure	COARSE WOODY DEBRIS, PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, FIELD-LAYER VEGETATION, SPECIES RICHNESS, SOUTHERN FINLAND, STAND STRUCTURE, DEAD WOOD, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, PLANT-COMMUNITIES, SWEDISH FORESTS	We aimed to quantify the effects of anthropogenic disturbances on forest structure and diversity in deciduous and mixed boreo-nemoral stands, conditioned on potential confounding factors. Based on these results, we created a statistically-supported indicator list of stand "naturalness". We surveyed 50 quantitative and qualitative characteristics of a stand, the understorey and forest floor, and several widely accepted biodiversity indicators in 171 forests in Estonia. Multi-factorial GLM and GLIM analyses showed that many forest structural characteristics were confounded by forest site-type specificity, stand age and/or biogeography. Near-natural old-growth forests had higher proportions of deciduous trees, a larger amount of coarse woody debris, a higher frequency of logs in each decay class, a denser understorey, and were more homogeneous in the horizontal pattern of each layer than mature managed forests. By improving light conditions, forest management indirectly increased herb layer richness and coverage and the proportion of graminoids. The critical easy-to-apply set of indicators to assess forest ecosystem quality includes the amount and type of dead wood, the canopy closure of a stand and the presence of specially-shaped trees, specific epiphytic indicator lichens, mosses and wood-dwelling insects, and forest site-type specific herb layer species.	[Liira, J; Sepp, T] Univ Tartu, Dept Bot, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, EE-51005 Tartu, Estonia	Liira, J (reprint author), Univ Tartu, Dept Bot, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, 40 Lai St, EE-51005 Tartu, Estonia.	jaan.liira@ut.ee	Liira, Jaan/G-9879-2015	Liira, Jaan/0000-0001-8863-0098	5	20	FINNISH ZOOLOGICAL BOTANICAL PUBLISHING BOARD	UNIV HELSINKI	P O BOX 26, FI-00014 UNIV HELSINKI, FINLAND	http://www.sekj.org/	0003-3847		ANN BOT FENN	Ann. Bot. Fenn.	2009	AUG	46	4				308	325	18	10.5735/085.046.0407	500QH	CCC:000270318100007					2019-04-10J	Huffman, DWLaughlin, DCPearson, KMPandey, S	Huffman, David W.; Laughlin, Daniel C.; Pearson, Kristen M.; Pandey, Sanjeev		Effects of vertebrate herbivores and shrub characteristics on arthropod assemblages in a northern Arizona forest ecosystem	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Indirect effects of herbivory, Structural equation modeling, Cervus elaphus, Odocoileus hemionus, Ceanothus fendleri, Ponderosa pine forest	PONDEROSA PINE FOREST, PLANT VIGOR HYPOTHESIS, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, HERBACEOUS VEGETATION, INTRAGUILD PREDATION, PHYTOPHAGOUS INSECTS, SPECIES RICHNESS, DEER, BIODIVERSITY, ELK	Large herbivores have potential to affect invertebrate community structure through numerous processes, but little work has been done to evaluate the relative importance of direct and indirect factors. In this study, we measured arthropod community assemblages on Ceanothus fendleri A. Gray (Fendler's ceanothus) plants that were growing inside and outside of 4-m(2) exclosures. We used univariate analyses and structural equation modeling (SEM) to evaluate relationships within this herbivore-plant-arthropod system in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Laws.) forests of northern Arizona, USA. Results showed that individual arthropod abundance, family diversity, family richness, and functional group richness were significantly greater on plots where C. fendleri plants were protected from large ungulate herbivores (e.g., mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni)) than on unprotected plots in each of the three study years. Results also indicated the following: (1) arthropod abundance was significantly greater on protected plants than unprotected plants; (2) rarefaction curves suggested arthropod family richness was similar between protected and unprotected plants in two of the three years when scaled by number of individuals but the estimated total richness was consistently higher on protected plants; (3) arthropod abundance was directly affected by protection from herbivores, plant stem length, and number of flowers; (4) arthropod family richness was related to the number of individuals collected and affected by stem length. Results from this study illustrate that arthropod communities are directly affected by foraging vertebrate herbivores as well as indirectly affected through complex plant-mediated factors in this model system. Protection of preferred forage plants such as C. fendleri from ungulate herbivores can potentially increase diversity of arthropod assemblages in these forests, help conserve biological diversity, and enhance ecosystem restoration efforts. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Huffman, DW; Laughlin, DC; Pearson, KM; Pandey, S] No Arizona Univ, Ecol Restorat Inst, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Laughlin, DC] No Arizona Univ, Sch Forestry, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA	Huffman, DW (reprint author), No Arizona Univ, Ecol Restorat Inst, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.	David.Huffman@nau.edu	Laughlin, Daniel/G-8855-2012		1	25	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	AUG	258	5				616	625	10		478XZ	CCC:000268623400009					2019-04-10J	Nappi, ADrapeau, P	Nappi, Antoine; Drapeau, Pierre		Reproductive success of the black-backed woodpecker (Picoides arcticus) in burned boreal forests: Are burns source habitats?	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Fire, Dead wood, Birds, Picidae, Nest success, Source-sink	NATURAL-DISTURBANCE, NEST SUCCESS, 3-TOED WOODPECKERS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, FORAGING ECOLOGY, CENTRAL QUEBEC, NORTH-AMERICA, SOUTH-DAKOTA, FIRE, MANAGEMENT	The black-backed woodpecker (Picoides arcticus) is considered a fire specialist throughout its breeding range. Given its high abundance in recent burns, it has been hypothesized that post-fire forests are source habitats for this species. We conducted a 3-year post-fire study to evaluate the temporal occupancy and reproductive success of black-backed woodpeckers in high-severity burned black spruce forests of central Quebec, Canada. We examined how reproductive success varied temporally and spatially within a burned landscape and investigated the potential source or sink status of this woodpecker population over time. Woodpecker nest density was high in the year after fire but declined significantly over the 3-year period. Based on 106 nests, nest success declined from 84% the first year after fire to 73% and 25%, respectively, for the second and third years after fire. Nest density and reproductive success were higher in areas with high proportions of burned mature forests than in areas dominated by burned young forests. Reproductive success was also higher in proximity to unburned forests. Comparison of annual productivity with a range of survival estimates indicated that these burned forests likely functioned as source habitats for the first 2 years following fire, although this status varied as a function of pre-fire forest age. Our results suggest that post-fire forests may contribute significantly to population levels in fire-prone ecosystems. Forest management practices that reduce the amount of mature and overmature forests can affect the quality of post-fire habitats important to the black-backed woodpecker and other fire-associated species. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Nappi, A; Drapeau, P] Univ Quebec, Ctr Forest Res, Dept Sci Biol, Montreal, PQ H3C 3P8, Canada	Nappi, A (reprint author), Bur Forestier Chef, 845 Blvd St Joseph, Roberval, PQ G8H 2L6, Canada.	antoine.nappi@fec.gouv.qc.ca; drapeau.pierre@uqam.ca			3	43	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2009	JUL	142	7				1381	1391	11		455IP	CCC:000266752500014					2019-04-10J	Russell, RERoyle, JASaab, VALehmkuhl, JFBlock, WMSauer, JR	Russell, Robin E.; Royle, J. Andrew; Saab, Victoria A.; Lehmkuhl, John F.; Block, William M.; Sauer, John R.		Modeling the effects of environmental disturbance on wildlife communities: avian responses to prescribed fire	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	composite analysis, fuel treatments, hierarchical Bayes, point count survey, ponderosa pine, presence-absence data, species richness, WinBUGS	ESTIMATING SPECIES RICHNESS, BREEDING BIRD COMMUNITIES, PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, BOREAL FOREST, FUEL-REDUCTION, OCCUPANCY, LANDSCAPES, DIVERSITY, SEVERITY, NORTHERN	Prescribed fire is a management tool used to reduce fuel loads on public lands in forested areas in the western United States. Identifying the impacts of prescribed fire on bird communities in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests is necessary for providing land management agencies with information regarding the effects of fuel reduction on sensitive, threatened, and migratory bird species Recent developments in occupancy modeling have established a framework for quantifying the impacts of management practices on wildlife community dynamics. We describe a Bayesian hierarchical model of multi-species occupancy accounting for detection probability, and we demonstrate the model's usefulness for identifying effects of habitat disturbances on wildlife communities. Advantages to using the model include the ability to estimate the effects of environmental impacts on rare or elusive species, the intuitive nature of the modeling, the incorporation of detection probability, the estimation of parameter uncertainty, the flexibility of the model to suit a variety of experimental designs, and the composite estimate of the response that applies to the collection of observed species as opposed to merely a small subset of common species. Our modeling of the impacts of prescribed fire on avian communities in a ponderosa pine forest in Washington indicate that prescribed fire treatments result in increased occupancy rates for several bark-insectivore, cavity-nesting species including a management species of interest, Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus). Three aerial insectivore species, and the ground insectivore, American Robin (Turdus migratorius), also responded positively to prescribed fire, whereas three foliage insectivores and two seed specialists, Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana) and the Pine Siskin (Carduelis pinus), declined following treatments. Land management agencies interested in determining the effects of habitat manipulations on wildlife communities can use these methods to provide guidance for future management activities.	[Block, WM] US Forest Serv, Mt Res Stn, Flagstaff, AZ 86001 USA; [Russell, RE; Saab, VA] Montana State Univ Campus, US Forest Serv, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Royle, JA; Sauer, JR] USGS Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Laurel, MD 20708 USA; [Lehmkuhl, JF] US Forest Serv, Pacific NW Res Stn, Wenatchee, WA 98801 USA	Russell, RE (reprint author), Montana Fish Wildlife & Pk Wildlife Div, 1400 S 19th Ave, Bozeman, MT 59718 USA.	RRussell@mt.gov		Russell, Robin/0000-0001-8726-7303; Royle, Jeffrey/0000-0003-3135-2167	4	117	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2009	JUL	19	5				1253	1263	11	10.1890/08-0910.1	458KW	CCC:000267020200016	19688932				2019-04-10J	Delgado, MPMorales, MBTraba, JDe la Morena, ELG	Delgado, Maria Paula; Morales, Manuel B.; Traba, Juan; Garcia De la Morena, Eladio L.		Determining the effects of habitat management and climate on the population trends of a declining steppe bird	IBIS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology	climate change, General Linear Model, land management, Little Bustard Tetrax tetrax, sensitivity analysis	BUSTARD TETRAX-TETRAX, OTIS-TARDA, SPECIES RICHNESS, WESTERN FRANCE, CENTRAL SPAIN, ABUNDANCE, SELECTION, LANDSCAPE, AREAS, FARMLAND	The Little Bustard Tetrax tetrax is one of the most threatened steppe bird species in Europe, due mainly to agricultural intensification. Despite the relative importance of the Iberian population (approximately 50% of the global population) little is known about its dynamics and trends, especially in core distribution areas. This study evaluates the influences of meteorological factors and land management on the oscillations and medium-term trends of two Little Bustard populations in Central Spain. During 2001-2007, surveys of breeding male and female Little Bustards were carried out in two central Spanish locations: Valdetorres, in Special Protection Area (SPA) no. 139 (1600 ha), and Campo Real, in Important Bird Area (IBA) no. 075 (1150 ha). Densities were 3.3-4.0 and 1.1-2.1 males/km(2) in Campo Real, and 1.8-2.2 and 0.6-1.3 females/km(2) in Valdetorres. The sex ratio was biased towards males in both cases. Both populations declined during 2001-2007, especially in Valdetorres (60%). Variation in habitat composition did not explain variation in the numbers of males. Both populations were influenced by total precipitation in the preceding October-May period. Results suggest that the Little Bustard may be sensitive to future climate trends in Europe. Finally, different simulated demographic scenarios suggest that low female survival and productivity may be the immediate cause of the decline in Little Bustard populations, which is consistent with their sensitivity to climatic conditions.	[Delgado, MP; Morales, MB; Traba, J; De la Morena, ELG] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, TEG, E-28049 Madrid, Spain	Delgado, MP (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, TEG, E-28049 Madrid, Spain.	paula.delgado@uam.es	Traba, Juan/D-9191-2012; Delgado, M. Paula/P-5086-2014; Morales, Manuel/B-1448-2014; Garcia de la Morena, Eladio Luis/	Traba, Juan/0000-0001-6326-8942; Garcia de la Morena, Eladio Luis/0000-0001-6746-4414	1	28	WILEY-BLACKWELL	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0019-1019		IBIS	Ibis	2009	JUL	151	3				440	451	12	10.1111/j.1474-919X.2009.00927.x	462PX	CCC:000267369200002					2019-04-10J	Dallimer, MAcs, SHanley, NWilson, PGaston, KJArmsworth, PR	Dallimer, Martin; Acs, Szvetlana; Hanley, Nick; Wilson, Paul; Gaston, Kevin J.; Armsworth, Paul R.		What explains property-level variation in avian diversity? An inter-disciplinary approach	JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	AES, Agri-Environment Scheme, habitat quality, hill farm, in-bye, moorland, Peak District, species richness, upland, UK	AGRI-ENVIRONMENT SCHEMES, UPLAND BREEDING BIRDS, AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION, SPECIES RICHNESS, FARMLAND BIRDS, PLUVIALIS-APRICARIA, GREAT-BRITAIN, CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, BIODIVERSITY	Modern farmed landscapes have witnessed substantial losses in biodiversity principally driven by the ecological changes associated with agricultural intensification. The causes of declines are often well described, but current management practices seem unlikely to deliver the EU-wide policy objective of halting biodiversity losses.Available evidence suggests that property-scale factors can be influential in shaping patterns of biodiversity; however, they are rarely included in studies. Using 44 upland farms in the Peak District, northern England, we investigate the roles of ecological, agricultural and socio-economic factors in determining avian species richness, for the first time incorporating information from all three influences.Although we might expect that habitat quality would be the main factor affecting species richness, these variables had little influence. The landscape context of each property was unimportant in explaining any of the three measures of species richness (Total, Upland and Conservation Concern) used here. Within-property habitat quality did explain 42% of the variation in richness of upland specialist species, but had no influence on Total or Conservation Concern Richness.Socio-economic circumstances of farms alone accounted for 24% of the variation in Total Richness, with land tenure and labour inputs important predictors of avian diversity. However, net income, rental value and the level of Agri-Environment Scheme (AES) payments did not play a role in predicting species richness.Farm management variables, including many of the main prescriptions outlined in AES, accounted for 23% of the variation in the richness of species of Conservation Concern, but less than 10% for Total Richness. However, no farm management variable alone was shown to offer better predictive power of avian species richness than random.Synthesis and applications. The agricultural landscape is managed by a mosaic of landowners, all of whom can influence biodiversity conservation. We demonstrate that variation at the property-scale in habitat, management and socio-economics can feed into determining patterns of biodiversity. Currently, farmland conservation policy largely assumes that socio-economic barriers and financial costs of implementing conservation measures are constant. Incorporating a consideration of the varying circumstances of individual properties into policy design is likely to result in substantial biodiversity gains.	[Dallimer, M; Gaston, KJ; Armsworth, PR] Univ Sheffield, Dept Anim & Plant Sci, Biodivers & Macroecol Grp, Sheffield S10 2TN, S Yorkshire, England; [Acs, S; Hanley, N] Univ Stirling, Dept Econ, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland; [Wilson, P] Univ Nottingham, Rural Business Res Unit, Loughborough LE12 5RD, Leics, England	Dallimer, M (reprint author), Univ Sheffield, Dept Anim & Plant Sci, Biodivers & Macroecol Grp, Sheffield S10 2TN, S Yorkshire, England.	M.Dallimer@sheffield.ac.uk		Dallimer, Martin/0000-0001-8120-3309; Armsworth, Paul/0000-0003-0918-0573; Wilson, Paul/0000-0003-4802-4127	0	26	WILEY-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING, INC	MALDEN	COMMERCE PLACE, 350 MAIN ST, MALDEN 02148, MA USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	0021-8901		J APPL ECOL	J. Appl. Ecol.	2009	JUN	46	3				647	656	10		439GE	CCC:000265614800019		Bronze			2019-04-10J	Miller, DAWigley, TBMiller, KV	Miller, Darren A.; Wigley, T. Bently; Miller, Karl V.		Managed Forests and Conservation of Terrestrial Biodiversity in the Southern United States	JOURNAL OF FORESTRY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	biodiversity, conservation, forest management, forestry, habitat, intensive forest management, Pinus spp., plantation management, southern United States, wildlife management	LOBLOLLY-PINE PLANTATIONS, ROOST-SITE SELECTION, LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE, SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY, TORRENT SALAMANDERS, HABITAT SELECTION, SPECIES RICHNESS, NORTH-AMERICA, HERBICIDES, BATS	The southern United States has significant area in managed pine (Pinus spp.) stands that contribute to terrestrial biodiversity via maintenance of forested areas, varied silvicultural practices resulting in diverse plant communities, stands in multiple successional stages interspersed with mature natural forests, and reduction of pressure an natural forests for wood products. However, conservation value of managed forests is dependent on factors such as product target, landscape context, management intensity, rotation length, stocking density, and ownership philosophy. Potential limitations include loss of natural forests, reduction in dead wood, constraints on stand structure, age and size of plantation frees, and economic pressure to increase management intensity. We recommend that landowners develop plans, including metrics for gauging progress, to cost-effectively manage for biological diversity within working forests and communicate outcomes to stakeholders. Forest certification systems offer a formalized approach for meeting biodiversity goals and demonstrating accomplishments.	[Miller, DA] Weyerhaeuser NR Co, So Environm Res, Columbus, MS 39704 USA; [Miller, KV] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA	Miller, DA (reprint author), Weyerhaeuser NR Co, So Environm Res, POB 2288, Columbus, MS 39704 USA.	darren.miller@weyerhaeuser.com; wigley@exchange.clemson.edu; kmiller@warnell.uga.edu			2	31	SOC AMER FORESTERS	BETHESDA	5400 GROSVENOR LANE, BETHESDA, MD 20814 USA	http://www.safnet.org	0022-1201		J FOREST	J. For.	2009	JUN	107	4				197	203	7		458QA	CCC:000267037400006					2019-04-10J	Perhans, KAppelgren, LJonsson, FNordin, USoderstrom, BGustafsson, L	Perhans, Karin; Appelgren, Leif; Jonsson, Fredrik; Nordin, Ulrika; Soderstrom, Bo; Gustafsson, Lena		Retention patches as potential refugia for bryophytes and lichens in managed forest landscapes	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Biodiversity, Cryptogams, Green-tree retention, Forest management, Indicator species, Red-listed species, Variable retention harvesting	GREEN-TREE RETENTION, ASPEN POPULUS-TREMULA, BOREAL FOREST, LOBARIA-PULMONARIA, PACIFIC-NORTHWEST, SPRUCE FOREST, CLEAR-CUTS, BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, WESTERN OREGON, GROWTH-RATES	Leaving small patches of forest intact at harvesting is now a standard procedure to mitigate negative effects on biodiversity. One purpose of the patches is to "life-boat" species over the forest regeneration phase, although the capacity of small forest fragments to do so is very uncertain. We investigated the survival of red-listed and indicator species of bryophytes and lichens in 74 retention patches in boreal Sweden. The patches were between 0.01 and 0.5 ha in size and of six different types with respect to tree species composition and location on the harvested area. Species presence and abundance were recorded shortly after harvest in transects covering the whole patches, and an identical inventory was carried out 6 years after the first. During this time, bryophytes generally decreased, most pronounced for liverworts. The largest decreases were found in buffer zones to streams and lakes and the smallest in tree groups dominated by deciduous trees. By contrast, among the lichens some species decreased while others increased, and there was no difference between retention patch types. Among the species abundant enough to be analyzed individually, the lichens Calicium parvum and Micarea globuloselia decreased less in larger patches and the bryophyte Hylocomiastrum umbratum decreased more in patches of irregular shape. The results imply that retention patches of this size might be too small to function as refugia for sensitive bryophytes and lichens until the surrounding forest regenerates, but that some lichens appear to persist or even increase. Retention harvesting is still a young management practice and further studies on its long-term conservation benefits will be valuable. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Perhans, K; Soderstrom, B; Gustafsson, L] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol, SE-75007 Uppsala, Sweden	Perhans, K (reprint author), Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol, POB 7044, SE-75007 Uppsala, Sweden.	karin.perhans@ekol.slu.se	Soderstrom, Bo/J-1604-2012; Guzow-Krzeminska, Beata/I-6450-2012; Soderstrom, Bo/; Gustafsson, Lena/	Soderstrom, Bo/0000-0002-7118-3575; Gustafsson, Lena/0000-0003-2467-7289	3	46	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2009	MAY	142	5				1125	1133	9		435IW	CCC:000265338600022					2019-04-10J	Dickson, BGNoon, BRFlather, CHJentsch, SBlock, WM	Dickson, Brett G.; Noon, Barry R.; Flather, Curtis H.; Jentsch, Stephanie; Block, William M.		Quantifying the multi-scale response of avifauna to prescribed fire experiments in the southwest United States	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	BACI design, birds, density, distance sampling, fire severity, forest structure, fuel reduction treatments, model selection, ponderosa pine, prescribed fire, restoration, scale	PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION, ECOSYSTEM HEALTH, CONSERVATION, BIRDS, ABUNDANCE, WILDFIRE, ARIZONA, STRATEGIES, MANAGEMENT	Landscape-scale disturbance events, including ecological restoration and fuel reduction activities, can modify habitat and affect relationships between species and their environment. To reduce the risk of uncharacteristic stand-replacing. res in the southwestern United States, land managers are implementing restoration and fuels treatments ( e. g., mechanical thinning, prescribed. re) in progressively larger stands of dry, lower elevation ponderosa pine ( Pinus ponderosa) forest. We used a Before-After/Control-Impact experimental design to quantify the multi-scale response of avifauna to large (similar to 250-400 ha) prescribed. re treatments on four sites in Arizona and New Mexico dominated by ponderosa pine. Using distance sampling and an information-theoretic approach, we estimated changes in density for 14 bird species detected before (May-June 2002-2003) and after (May-June 2004-2005) prescribed. re treatments. We observed few site-level differences in pre- and posttreatment density, and no species responded strongly to treatment on all four sites. Point-level spatial models of individual species response to treatment, habitat variables, and. re severity revealed ecological relationships that were more easily interpreted. At this scale, pretreatment forest structure and patch characteristics were important predictors of posttreatment differences in bird species density. Five species ( Pygmy Nuthatch [Sitta pygmaea], Western Bluebird [Sialia mexicana], Steller's Jay [Cyanocitta stelleri], American Robin [Turdus migratorius], and Hairy Woodpecker [Picoides villosus]) exhibited a strong treatment response, and two of these species ( American Robin and Hairy Woodpecker) could be associated with meaningful. re severity response functions. The avifaunal response patterns that we observed were not always consistent with those reported by more common studies of wildland. re events. Our results suggest that, in the short term, the distribution and abundance of common members of the breeding bird community in Southwestern ponderosa pine forests appear to be tolerant of low- to moderate-intensity prescribed. re treatments at multiple spatial scales and across multiple geographic locations.	[Dickson, BG; Noon, BR] Colorado State Univ, Dept Fish Wildlife & Conservat Biol, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA; [Dickson, BG; Block, WM] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Flagstaff, AZ 86001 USA; [Flather, CH] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Ft Collins, CO 80526 USA; [Jentsch, S] Univ Arizona, Sch Nat Resources, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA	Dickson, BG (reprint author), No Arizona Univ, Ctr Sustainable Environm, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.	brett.dickson@nau.edu	Flather, Curtis/G-3577-2012	Flather, Curtis/0000-0002-0623-3126	1	20	ECOLOGICAL SOC AMER	WASHINGTON	1990 M STREET NW, STE 700, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA	http://www.esa.org/	1051-0761		ECOL APPL	Ecol. Appl.	2009	APR	19	3				608	621	14	10.1890/08-0905.1	420SM	CCC:000264309500011	19425425				2019-04-10J	Fontaine, JBDonato, DCRobinson, WDLaw, BEKauffman, JB	Fontaine, Joseph B.; Donato, Daniel C.; Robinson, W. Douglas; Law, Beverly E.; Kauffman, J. Boone		Bird communities following high-severity fire: Response to single and repeat fires in a mixed-evergreen forest, Oregon, USA	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Biscuit Fire, Reburn, Mediterranean, Mixed severity, Klamath-Siskiyou, Avian	CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, POSTFIRE SUCCESSION, SHORT INTERVAL, SIERRA-NEVADA, BURN SEVERITY, WILDFIRE, VEGETATION, ECOLOGY, HETEROGENEITY, ASSEMBLAGES	Fire is a widespread natural disturbance agent in most conifer-dominated forests. In light of climate change and the effects of fire exclusion, single and repeated high-severity (stand-replacement) fires have become prominent land management issues. We studied bird communities using point counting in the Klamath-Siskiyou ecoregion of Oregon, USA at various points in time after one or two high-severity fires. Time points included 2 and 3 years after a single fire, 17 and 18 years after a single fire, 2 and 3 years after a repeat fire (15 year interval between fires), and >100 years since stand-replacement fire (mature/old-growth forest). Avian species richness did not differ significantly among habitats. Bird density was highest 17 and 18 years after fire, lowest 2 years after fire, and intermediate in repeat burns and unburned forest. Bird community composition varied significantly with habitat type (A = 0.24, P < 0.0001) with two distinct gradients in species composition relating to tree structure (live to dead) and shrub stature. Using indicator species analysis, repeat burns were characterized by shrub-nesting and ground-foraging bird species while unburned mature forests were characterized by conifer-nesting and foliage-gleaning species. Bird density was not related to snag basal area but was positively related to shrub height. Contrary to expectations, repeated high-severity fire did not reduce species richness, and bird densities were greater in repeat burns than in once-burned habitats. Broad-leaved hardwoods and shrubs appear to play a major role in structuring avian communities in the Klamath-Siskiyou region. In light of these results, extended periods of early seral broadleaf dominance and short-interval high-severity fires may be important to the conservation of avian biodiversity. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Fontaine, JB; Robinson, WD] Oregon State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Donato, DC; Law, BE] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Kauffman, JB] USDA Forest Serv, Inst Pacific Isl Forestry, Hilo, HI 96720 USA	Fontaine, JB (reprint author), Murdoch Univ, Sch Environm Sci, Perth, WA 6150, Australia.	j.fontaine@murdoch.edu.au; dan.donato@oregonstate.edu; douglas.robinson@oregonstate.edu; bev.law@oregonstate.edu; boonekauffman@fs.fed.us	Fontaine, Joseph/M-9186-2013; Law, Beverly/G-3882-2010	Fontaine, Joseph/0000-0002-6515-7864; Law, Beverly/0000-0002-1605-1203	5	47	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	MAR	257	6				1496	1504	9		421AJ	CCC:000264330000006					2019-04-10J	Primack, RBMiller-Rushing, AJDharaneeswaran, K	Primack, Richard B.; Miller-Rushing, Abraham J.; Dharaneeswaran, Kiruba		Changes in the flora of Thoreau's Concord	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	Concord, Massachusetts, Flora, Henry David Thoreau, Local extinction, Population declines, Species composition, Suburban landscape	ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINANTS, SPECIES LOSS, LOCAL EXTINCTIONS, PROTECTED AREAS, CLIMATE-CHANGE, CONSERVATION, REVISITATION, LANDSCAPE, MASSACHUSETTS, PERSPECTIVE	To determine the effectiveness of conservation efforts, scientists and land managers must evaluate the ability of conservation areas to protect biological diversity. The historic town of Concord, Massachusetts, home of the philosopher and naturalist Henry David Thoreau, provides a unique opportunity to examine how well conservation areas preserve biodiversity in a suburban landscape. About 35% of total land area in the town has been protected, and botanists, including Thoreau, have surveyed plants in Concord five times over the last 170 years. We spent 5 years (2003-2007) re-surveying a subset of Concord's flora for species presence and abundance. Of the species seen by Thoreau in the mid-19th century in Concord, we could not locate 27%, and an additional 36% persist in one or two populations where they are vulnerable to local extinction. Most species losses appear to have occurred in the past three to four decades. Certain groups, such as orchids, have shown particularly severe losses. More native species are declining in abundance than are increasing. Non-native species represent an increasing percentage of the flora, with many increasing in abundance. The flora has experienced a net loss of species over the past four decades, with 82 species gained and 236 species missing. Because many species are rare on a local scale, persisting as one or two small populations, local extinctions will likely continue in coming decades. Habitat management, primarily to prevent tree establishment, appears to have allowed many rare species of open habitats to persist and recover. Active management of existing sites will likely be the key to protecting the species diversity of the Concord flora and maintaining the living connection to the writings of Thoreau. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	[Primack, RB; Miller-Rushing, AJ; Dharaneeswaran, K] Boston Univ, Dept Biol, Boston, MA 02215 USA	Primack, RB (reprint author), Boston Univ, Dept Biol, 5 Cummington St, Boston, MA 02215 USA.	primack@bu.edu; abe@wildlife.org; kiruba34@gmail.com	Miller-Rushing, Abraham/D-5102-2009	Miller-Rushing, Abraham/0000-0003-3203-0143	0	40	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	http://www.elsevier.com	0006-3207		BIOL CONSERV	Biol. Conserv.	2009	MAR	142	3				500	508	9		412RS	CCC:000263742500004					2019-04-10J	Johnson, TNApplegate, RDHoover, DEGipson, PSSandercock, BK	Johnson, T. N.; Applegate, R. D.; Hoover, D. E.; Gipson, P. S.; Sandercock, B. K.		EVALUATING AVIAN COMMUNITY DYNAMICS IN RESTORED RIPARIAN HABITATS WITH MARK-RECAPTURE MODELS	WILSON JOURNAL OF ORNITHOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		ESTIMATING SPECIES RICHNESS, BIRD COMMUNITIES, DETECTION PROBABILITIES, LOCAL EXTINCTION, CAPTURE, POPULATIONS, RESTORATION, MANAGEMENT, DESIGN, ROBUST	Estimates of community attributes such as species richness, local extinction, and turnover are critical when evaluating ecological restoration efforts. Estimates of species richness based on counts can be biased by variation in the probability of detection among different species. We quantified the effects of livestock exclusion on riparian bird communities using mark-recapture models to account for variation in species detection rates. Specifically, we estimated species richness and other community parameters for fenced and grazed sites with robust design models where closed-captures were treated as mixtures, and then used transition rates to calculate derived vital rates for avian communities. Estimates of species richness based on unadjusted counts were correlated with estimates from robust design models, but counts failed to detect important temporal changes in species richness. Estimates of species richness from robust design models increased at fenced and grazed sites over an 8-year period, but community vital rates were unaffected by cattle exclusion. We examined qualitative changes in abundance of birds in four nesting guilds, and concluded that temporal changes may have been driven by regional dynamics in avian communities. Our mark-recapture analysis allowed us to compare standardized estimates of community parameters between habitats, observers, and time periods after accounting for variation in detection rates. Robust design models are a useful tool that will facilitate accurate assessments of community dynamics following future restoration efforts. Received 12 March 2007. Accepted 29 June 2008.	[Johnson, TN; Sandercock, BK] Kansas State Univ, Div Biol, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA; [Applegate, RD] Kansas Dept Wildlife & Pk, Emporia, KS 66801 USA; [Hoover, DE; Gipson, PS] Kansas State Univ, Kansas Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA	Johnson, TN (reprint author), Kansas State Univ, Div Biol, 116 Ackert Hall, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA.	tracey.johnson@oregonstate.edu	Sandercock, Brett/L-1644-2016	Sandercock, Brett/0000-0002-9240-0268	1	10	WILSON ORNITHOLOGICAL SOC	WACO	5400 BOSQUE BLVD, STE 680, WACO, TX 76710 USA		1559-4491		WILSON J ORNITHOL	Wilson J. Ornithol.	2009	MAR	121	1				22	40	19	10.1676/07-044.1	585DB	CCC:000276803400003					2019-04-10J	Cahall, REHayes, JP	Cahall, Rebecca E.; Hayes, John P.		Influences of postfire salvage logging on forest birds in the Eastern Cascades, Oregon, USA	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Birds, Fire, Salvage logging, Ponderosa pine-Douglas-fir forest	DOUGLAS-FIR FORESTS, STAND-REPLACEMENT FIRE, CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS, WESTERN OREGON, BOREAL FOREST, SIERRA-NEVADA, BURN SEVERITY, COMMUNITIES, WILDFIRE, POPULATIONS	In coniferous forests of western North American, fire is an important disturbance that influences the structure and composition of floral and faunal communities. The impacts of postfire management, including salvage logging and replanting, on these forests are not well known. We compared densities and relative abundances of forest birds after fire in unsalvaged stands and stands subjected to one of two intensities of salvage logging (moderate, 30 snags retained per ha and heavy, 5-6 snags retained per ha) in mixed-conifer forests in central Oregon. We used analysis of variance with repeated measures to evaluate three hypotheses concerning the influence of different intensities of salvage on densities or relative abundances of sixteen species of birds, and two hypotheses concerning the influence of time since salvage logging on relative abundances or densities of birds. We also examined the relationship between vegetation and abundances of each bird species. We did not detect significant differences among treatments in densities or relative abundances for eight species and one genus of birds. We detected significant differences for seven species, though the patterns differed among species. Relative abundances or densities of the black-backed woodpecker (Picoides arcticus), hairy woodpecker (P. villosus), brown creeper (Certhia americana), western wood-pewee (Contopus sordidulus) and yellow-rumped warbler (Dendroica coronata) were lower in the heavy and moderate salvage treatment compared to the unsalvaged treatment, while densities of the dark-eyed junco (Junco hyemalis) and fox sparrow (Passerella iliaca) were greater in the moderately and heavily salvaged stands than in the unsalvaged treatment. We detected significant differences between years for four species of birds. Our findings suggest that both cavity-nesting and cup-nesting species respond to salvage logging, and that some species respond uniquely to habitat features influenced by salvage logging. For species that responded negatively to salvage logging, the moderate salvage intensity did not appear to mitigate the negative influence of salvage logging. Areas of unlogged burned forest appear to provide important habitat for some species of birds following forest fires. Our findings parallel those of other recent studies of these species, suggesting robust patterns that transcend particular locations. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Cahall, RE; Hayes, JP] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA	Cahall, RE (reprint author), Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Sci, Peavy Hall 154, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.	rebecca.cahall@earthlink.net; hayesj@ufl.edu	Hayes, John/C-7967-2016	Hayes, John/0000-0002-6462-6876	0	23	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	FEB	257	3				1119	1128	10		405IE	CCC:000263215700040					2019-04-10J	Gil-Tena, ABrotons, LSaura, S	Gil-Tena, Assu; Brotons, Lluis; Saura, Santiago		Mediterranean forest dynamics and forest bird distribution changes in the late 20th century	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ENVIRONMENT/ECOLOGY	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	dispersal, forest maturation, forest spread, generalist and specialist forest bird species, hierarchical modelling, land abandonment, mixed models, regional processes, spatial autocorrelation, wildfires	CLIMATE-CHANGE, LANDSCAPE CHANGES, LAND ABANDONMENT, AGRICULTURAL ABANDONMENT, WILDFIRE OCCURRENCE, POPULATION TRENDS, SPECIES RICHNESS, FIRE, ABUNDANCE, PATTERNS	Processes derived from global change such as land-use changes, climate warming or modifications in the perturbation regime may have opposite effects on forest extent and structure with still unknown consequences on forest biodiversity at large spatial scales. In the present study, we aimed at determining forest dynamics associated with global change processes (forest spread, maturation and fire) that have driven the variation in forest bird distributions in Mediterranean forest ecosystems in recent years. The study was located in Catalonia (NE Spain) and used changes in richness of specialist and generalist forest bird species in the last 20 years of the 20th century as indicators of forest biodiversity change. Forest bird distribution changes showed strong spatial patterns and appeared to be related to population processes occurring beyond sampling units (10 km x 10 km squares). Forest maturation appeared as the most important driver of such changes because most of the studied species have a non-Mediterranean origin and are associated with more mature forests. To a lower degree, forest spread also contributed to forest bird distribution changes whereas the impact of forest fires was not associated to a decrease in the richness of either group of forest species. Given the relatively coarse scale at which our study was conducted, caution should be taken when extrapolating our results to the possible future impacts of climate change on fire regime and forest bird distribution. Our results indicate that large-scale forest maturation and spread due mainly to land abandonment in Catalonia has overridden the potentially negative effects of fires on forest bird distributions and are currently driving changes in forest biodiversity patterns across the region.	[Brotons, L; Saura, S] Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Area Biodiversitat, Solsona 25280, Lleida, Spain; [Gil-Tena, A; Saura, S] Univ Lleida, Dept Engn Agroforestal, Lleida 25198, Spain; [Brotons, L] Museu Ciencies Nat, Inst Catala Ornitol, Barcelona 08003, Spain	Brotons, L (reprint author), Ctr Tecnol Forestal Catalunya, Area Biodiversitat, C Pujada Seminari S-N, Solsona 25280, Lleida, Spain.	lluis.brotons@ctfc.cat	Brotons, Lluis/D-1570-2009; Saura, Santiago/A-9994-2008	Brotons, Lluis/0000-0002-4826-4457; Saura, Santiago/0000-0002-5239-0763	2	23	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/	1354-1013		GLOBAL CHANGE BIOL	Glob. Change Biol.	2009	FEB	15	2				474	485	12	10.1111/j.1365-2486.2008.01730.x	395FR	CCC:000262510500015					2019-04-10J	Nikolov, SC	Nikolov, Stoyan C.		Effect of stand age on bird communities in late-successional Macedonian pine forests in Bulgaria	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Forest succession, Ecological guild, Bird-habitat relationships, Habitat selection, Macedonian pine, Bulgaria	BOREAL FORESTS, SPECIES RICHNESS, AVIAN COMMUNITIES, POPULATION TRENDS, WOODLAND BIRDS, DEAD WOOD, HABITAT, MANAGEMENT, LANDSCAPE, APPALACHIANS	To gain insight into the question of which vegetation characteristics have the most influence on avian assemblages in late-successional forests, the habitat preferences of bird-guilds in old-growth endemic forests of Macedonian pine were studied over 3 years in the Pirin National Park, Bulgaria. Bird-habitat relationships were investigated by comparing vegetation characteristics, and bird species richness, diversity, abundance, and guild structure of birds (determined according to food type, foraging and nesting sites) between mature (60-100 years old) and over-mature (>120 years old) Macedonian pine forest stands. Studied forest age-classes differed mainly by the density, height and diameter of trees, and the amount of dead wood. The first one of these parameters decreased and the latter two parameters increased with the forest succession. The difference in the vegetation structure affected the abundance of bird-guilds and thus, the overall bird abundance and the structure of avian assemblages within Macedonian pine forests. There was no significant difference in bird diversity among studied forest age-classes, but the overall bird abundance increased with forest maturation. Analyzed by study plots, species richness was higher in over-mature forests, but at cluster level, there was no significant difference between mature and over-mature forest age-classes. Half of the studied (insectivorous, hole- and ground-nesters, bark- and canopy-foraging bird species) guilds were more abundant in over-mature forests, while there was no bird-guild exhibiting a preference for mature forest stands. The abundances of bird-guilds were correlated with tree height, diameter at breast height and the amount of dead wood between the studied forest age-classes and this might explain their preferences for over-mature pine forests. Therefore, for future sustainable management of these endemic forests and the conservation of their avifauna, efforts should focus on protecting the remaining native old-growth forest stands and the importance of the structure of Macedonian pine forests on their bird assemblages should be considered in forestry practices. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	BAS, Cent Lab Gen Ecol, BG-1113 Sofia, Bulgaria	Nikolov, SC (reprint author), BAS, Cent Lab Gen Ecol, 2 Yurii Gagarin St, BG-1113 Sofia, Bulgaria.	nikolov100yan@abv.bg	Nikolov, Stoyan/F-5548-2011		1	24	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	JAN	257	2				580	587	8	10.1016/j.foreco.2008.09.030	386YQ	CCC:000261918900023					2019-04-10J	Kardynal, KJHobson, KAVan Wilgenburg, SLMorissette, JL	Kardynal, Kevin J.; Hobson, Keith A.; Van Wilgenburg, Steven L.; Morissette, Julienne L.		Moving riparian management guidelines towards a natural disturbance model: An example using boreal riparian and shoreline forest bird communities	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Bird community, Boreal plain, Fire, Forestry, Natural disturbance hypothesis, Natural range of variation, Riparian	BUFFER STRIPS, HARVEST, FIRE, MIXEDWOOD, ECOSYSTEM, HABITAT, ALBERTA, CANADA, STANDS, ZONES	Forest harvesting strategies that approximate natural disturbances have been proposed as a means of maintaining natural species' diversity and richness in the boreal forests of North America. Natural disturbances impact shoreline forests and upland areas at similar rates. However, shoreline forests are generally protected from harvest through the retention of treed buffer strips. We examined bird community responses to forest management guidelines intended to approximate shoreline forest fires by comparing bird community structure in early (1-4 years) post-burned and harvested boreal riparian habitats and the adjacent shoreline forest. We sampled riparian areas with adjacent: (1) burned merchantable shoreline forest (n = 21), (2) burned non-merchantable shoreline forest (n = 29), (3) 10 m treed buffer with 25% retention in the next 30 rn (n = 18), and (4) 30 m treed buffer (n = 21). Only minor differences were detected in riparian species' abundance and bird community composition between treatments with greater differences in these parameters occurring between post-fire and post-harvest upland bird communities. Indicators of all merchantable treatments were dominated by upland species with open-habitat species and habitat generalists being typical upland indicator species of burned merchantable habitats and forest specialists typical upland indicators of harvested treatments. Riparian species indicative of burned riparian habitats were Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas), Le Conte's Sparrow (Ammodramus leconteii) and Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus) and indicators of 30 m buffers were Alder Flycatcher (Empidonax alnorum) and Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla). Multivariate Redundancy Analysis (RDA) of the overall (riparian and upland birds) community showed greater divergence than RDA with only riparian species suggesting less effect of fire and forestry on riparian birds than on upland birds. Higher natural range of variability (NRV) of overall post-fire bird communities compared to post-harvest communities emphasizes that harvesting guidelines currently do not achieve this level of variability. However, lack of a large negative effect on common riparian species in the first 4 years post-disturbance allows for the exploration of alternative shoreline forest management that better incorporates bird community composition of post-fire riparian areas and shoreline forests. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	[Hobson, KA] Environm Canada, Saskatoon, SK S7N 3H5, Canada; [Kardynal, KJ; Hobson, KA] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Biol, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5E2, Canada; [Van Wilgenburg, SL] Environm Canada, Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X4, Canada; [Morissette, JL] Ducks Unlimited Canada, Edmonton, AB T5S 1V4, Canada	Hobson, KA (reprint author), Environm Canada, 11 Innovat Pl, Saskatoon, SK S7N 3H5, Canada.	keith.hobson@ec.gc.ca		Van Wilgenburg, Steven/0000-0002-6742-4567	2	28	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	JAN	257	1				54	65	12	10.1016/j.foreco.2008.08.029	386AZ	CCC:000261856000007					2019-04-10J	Saab, VARussell, REDudley, JG	Saab, Victoria A.; Russell, Robin E.; Dudley, Jonathan G.		Nest-site selection by cavity-nesting birds in relation to postfire salvage logging	FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	PLANT SCIENCES	Plant Sciences	Colaptes auratus, Melanerpes lewis, Picoides spp., Salvage logging, Sialia spp., Wildfire, Woodpeckers	PONDEROSA PINE FORESTS, STAND-REPLACEMENT FIRE, WESTERN UNITED-STATES, BOREAL FOREST, RIPARIAN FORESTS, BREEDING BIRDS, SIERRA-NEVADA, WILDFIRE, WOODPECKERS, HABITAT	Large wildfire events in coniferous forests of the western United States are often followed by postfire timber harvest. The long-term impacts of postfire timber harvest on fire-associated cavity-nesting bird species are not well documented. We studied nest-site selection by cavity-nesting birds over a 10-year period (1994-2003), representing 1-11 years after fire, on two burns created by mixed severity wildfires in western Idaho, USA. One burn was partially salvaged logged (the Foothills burn), the other was primarily unlogged (the Star Gulch burn). We monitored 1367 nests of six species (Lewis's Woodpecker Melanerpes lewis, Hairy Woodpecker Picoides villosus, Black-backed Woodpecker P. arcticus, Northern Flicker Colaptes auratus, Western Bluebird Sialia mexicana, and Mountain Bluebird S. currucoides). Habitat data at nest and non-nest random locations were characterized at fine (field collected) and coarse (remotely sensed) spatial scales. Nest-site selection for most species was consistently associated with higher snag densities and larger snag diameters, whereas wildfire location (Foothills versus Star Gulch) was secondarily important. All woodpecker species used nest sites with larger diameter snags that were surrounded by higher densities of snags than at non-nest locations. Nests of Hairy Woodpecker and Mountain Bluebird were primarily associated with the unlogged wildfire, whereas nests of Lewis's Woodpecker and Western Bluebird were associated with the partially logged burn in the early years after fire. Nests of wood-probing species (Hairy and Black-backed Woodpeckers) were also located in larger forest patch areas than patches measured at non-nest locations. Our results confirm previous findings that maintaining clumps of large snags in postfire landscapes is necessary for maintaining breeding habitat of cavity-nesting birds. Additionally, appropriately managed salvage logging can create habitat for some species of cavity-nesting birds that prefer more open environments. Our findings can be used by land mangers to develop design criteria for postfire salvage logging that will reserve breeding habitat for cavity-nesting birds. Published by Elsevier B.V.	[Saab, VA; Russell, RE] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Dudley, JG] US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Boise, ID 83702 USA	Saab, VA (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, 1648 S 7th Ave Montana State Univ Campus, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA.	vsaab@fs.fed.us		Russell, Robin/0000-0001-8726-7303	0	33	ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV	AMSTERDAM	PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS	http://www.elsevier.com	0378-1127		FOREST ECOL MANAG	For. Ecol. Manage.	2009	JAN	257	1				151	159	9	10.1016/j.foreco.2008.08.028	386AZ	CCC:000261856000017					2019-04-10J	Bridle, KFitzgerald, MGreen, DSmith, JMcQuillan, PLefroy, T	Bridle, Kerry; Fitzgerald, Margy; Green, David; Smith, Janet; McQuillan, Peter; Lefroy, Ted		Relationships between site characteristics, farming system and biodiversity on Australian mixed farms	ANIMAL PRODUCTION SCIENCE			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	AGRICULTURE/AGRONOMY	Agriculture		LAND-USE, AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPES, SPIDER ASSEMBLAGES, GROUND BEETLE, INDICATORS, MANAGEMENT, DIVERSITY, HABITAT, INTENSIFICATION, WOODLAND	A collaborative project between researchers, regional natural resource management organisations and landholders set out to explore three questions about the relationships between biodiversity and land use in Australia's mixed-farming landscapes: (1) the extent to which farm-scale measures of biodiversity were related to agricultural production; (2) the influence of the type and intensity of agricultural production on native biodiversity on farms; and (3) the relative influence of site and farming system on selected measures of biodiversity. Four land-use types on 47 mixed farms across nine regions, derived from several of Australia's 56 natural resource management regions, were surveyed in autumn and spring 2006 and 2007. Surveys of birds, surface invertebrates (beetles, ants, spiders), vegetation and soils were undertaken on four land classes on each farm; crop, 'rotation' (break crop/pasture phase), perennial pasture and remnant vegetation. Data were collected by participating regional staff, using a standard protocol, which were sent to a central collection point for collation, analysis and interpretation.Species richness, functional diversity and vegetation structure were assessed. This introductory paper focuses on results relating to species richness, which for most taxa was greater in remnant vegetation than other land-use classes and declined along a disturbance gradient (remnant, pasture, rotation, crop). Properties with a greater proportion of perennial pastures recorded higher species richness than properties that were dominated by crop. Properties that recorded high wheat yields (t/ha) also recorded lower species richness for spiders and birds. The presence of insectivorous birds and beneficial invertebrates (spiders, beetles and ants) in all land-use classes suggests the potential to apply integrated pest management approaches to mixed-farming systems across the country.Site and system features were found to be important determinants of biodiversity, with their relative importance varying with the scale of investigation and the taxa. At the landscape scale, bird species richness was correlated with the amount of remnant vegetation within a 5-km radius of the farm boundary, and with the condition of native vegetation on the farm. The average size of remnant vegetation patches was 5 ha or less on nearly half of the properties surveyed. At the farm scale, ant species richness was correlated with site features, while beetles were correlated with management/system features such as the presence and fertility of perennial pastures.Analyses at the functional group level will provide more detailed information on relationships between different land-use types. Further experimental work needs to be undertaken to qualify the suggested impact of land management practices on different taxa, while repeated surveys will allow for the collation of datasets over time, from which population dynamics may be determined.	[Bridle, K] Univ Tasmania, Tasmanian Inst Agr Res, CSIRO Sustainable Ecosyst, Hobart, Tas 7001, Australia; [Fitzgerald, M; Green, D; McQuillan, P] Univ Tasmania, Sch Geog & Environm Studies, Hobart, Tas 7001, Australia; [Smith, J; Lefroy, T] Univ Tasmania, Ctr Environm, Hobart, Tas 7001, Australia	Bridle, K (reprint author), Univ Tasmania, Tasmanian Inst Agr Res, CSIRO Sustainable Ecosyst, Private Bag 98, Hobart, Tas 7001, Australia.	kerry.bridle@utas.edu.au	Lefroy, Ted/J-7144-2014; McQuillan, Peter/C-2373-2014; CSIRO, SAF/H-3134-2013; McQuillan, Peter/	Lefroy, Ted/0000-0002-3164-8948; McQuillan, Peter/0000-0001-6334-372X	7	38	CSIRO PUBLISHING	CLAYTON	UNIPARK, BLDG 1, LEVEL 1, 195 WELLINGTON RD, LOCKED BAG 10, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA	http://www.publish.csiro.au	1836-0939		ANIM PROD SCI	Anim. Prod. Sci.	2009		49	9-10				869	882	14		494KT	CCC:000269812400015					2019-04-10J	Czeszczewik, D	Czeszczewik, Dorota		Marginal differences between random plots and plots used by foraging White-backed Woodpeckers demonstrates supreme primeval quality of the Bialowieza National Park, Poland	ORNIS FENNICA			English	Article	Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences (ABES)	ANIMAL SCIENCES	Zoology		SPANISH WESTERN PYRENEES, DENDROCOPOS-LEUCOTOS, SEXUAL-DIMORPHISM, DRYOCOPUS-MARTIUS, FOREST, CONSERVATION	I compared structural characteristics between foraging plots of an endangered European species, the White-backed Woodpecker Dendrocopos leucotos (WbW), and random plots in primeval deciduous stands of Bialowieza National Park. I expected that WbW would use plots with higher amount of dead wood in more advanced decay stage, with higher amount of birches Betula spp. and aspen Populus tremula, and with more large trees. Within 50, 0.25-ha plots (25 used by WbW and 25 random) tree-species composition, tree condition, tree diameter at breast height DBH and characteristics of dead trees were measured. WbW and random plots were similar in overall structure; only the volume of fallen timber was significantly larger in WbW than in random plots (65.3 and 47.4 m(3)/ba, respectively). There was also a tendency for the occurrence of more snags of 11-20 cm DBH within WbW plots. Thus, the amount of fallen timber might determine WbW choice of the foraging habitat. However, due to the relatively high similarity of WbW vs. random plots, the sections of Bialowieza National Park that are covered with old-growth deciduous stands represent high-quality habitat for WbW foraging.	Univ Podlasie, Dept Zool, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland	Czeszczewik, D (reprint author), Univ Podlasie, Dept Zool, Prusa 12, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland.	dorotacz@ap.siedlce.pl		Czeszczewik, Dorota/0000-0003-0523-1417	0	14	BIRDLIFE FINLAND	HELSINKI	PO BOX 1285, HELSINKI, 00101, FINLAND	http://www.ornisfennica.org	0030-5685		ORNIS FENNICA	Ornis Fenn.	2009		86	1				30	37	8		454ZV	CCC:000266725100004					2019-04-10